
Title: User guide



[[the-suitecrm-team-and-community]]
The SuiteCRM Team and Community
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is safe to say without the constant work from the SuiteCRM Team and
Community, I would not have had the drive and commitment to sit down and
write this user guide. New functionality and improvements to the core
product are constantly added to make SuiteCRM the best Open Source CRM
product in the world, and to compete with proprietary CRM vendors such
as SugarCRM, Salesforce and Microsoft.

As for The SuiteCRM Community - they provide bug reports, bug fixes and
bug testing. The Community is at the heart of any Open Source project
and this is no different with SuiteCRM. With each new release the
community grows and with it grow the benefits of the Open Source
ecosystem.

[[what-is-suitecrm]]
What is SuiteCRM?
-----------------

SuiteCRM is a software fork of the popular
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_relationship_management[Customer
Relationship Management] (CRM) system
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SugarCRM[SugarCRM], developed and
maintained by SalesAgility. It is a free and open source alternative
application. It was released on October 21, 2013 as version 7.0. The
latest production version at the time of publishing this User Guide is
SuiteCRM 7.6.3.

SuiteCRM has been downloaded more than 500,000 times since the original
release. It has been adopted by NHS (National Health Service) England's
Code for Health programme which seeks to foster open source in the NHS
in England.

The SuiteCRM project has stated that the every line of code released by
the project will be open source. SuiteCRM project is intended to be an
enterprise-class open source alternative to proprietary products.

A project Roadmap is available that details planned enhancements.

An active public support forum with more than 25,000 members is
available for free support and is regularly monitored and updated by the
Project team.

A directory of extensions is available where both free and paid-for
enhancements are available.

The project maintains https://suitecrmondemand.com/[SuiteCRM:OnDemand],
a Software As A Service facility for users who seek a rapid deployment
and maintenance free service.

There will be no licensed software as part of the project managed by
SalesAgility. All the code is free. All the code is available for free
download. There is no hidden agenda to charge for access to the code. It
is and always will be free and open source. There will be no paid-for
versions.

[[who-is-salesagility]]
Who is SalesAgility?
--------------------

SalesAgility is an ISO-accredited open source consultancy focused on
Customer Relationship Management (CRM). An early adopter of SugarCRM
Community Edition, SalesAgility are the creators and maintainers behind
the SugarCRM fork – SuiteCRM.

SalesAgility have delivered more than 300 SuiteCRM and SugarCRM
projects, and are known as a world class knowledge and expertise
resource for open source CRM. Customers include governments, enterprises
and small and medium sized business globally.

SalesAgility has a clear mission statement:

_"Our goal is to innovate and provide advanced SuiteCRM and SugarCRM
solutions along with the industry’s leading customer service and
support._

_We believe that open source is in the best interest of our clients and
we will continue to build, innovate, evangelise and provide best
practice working models for the open source community."_

[[what-is-in-the-user-guide]]
What is in the User Guide?
--------------------------

The SuiteCRM User Guide has been written for the end user. This guide
covers the SuiteCRM User Journey from end-to-end. We will explore all
areas from the basics of logging into the system to creating complex
automated workflows and reports.

The SuiteCRM User Guide is split into various chapters. These chapters
are ordered so that you progress through you guide as you would
logically in day to day CRM use. The chapters contain sub-sections which
break down barriers for you, explaining how to optimise the use of the
customer relationship management system to effectively manage sales
data.

Readers of the SuiteCRM User Guide do not need to have development
knowledge or prior knowledge of SuiteCRM. It is advised that you are
computer literate, that you are familiar with using your chosen web
browser and that SuiteCRM has already been installed and configured.

[[getting-started]]
Getting Started
---------------

[[logging-into-suitecrm]]
Logging Into SuiteCRM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SuiteCRM allows users to log in using your Username and Password,
provided to you by the System Administrator.

image:190Home_screen.png[190Home_screen.png,title="190Home_screen.png"]

image:02Login_with_language.png[02Login_with_language.png,title="02Login_with_language.png"]

Before logging into SuiteCRM, you can select the language you wish to
use. There are many default languages for SuiteCRM and there are also
additional language packs available for other languages around the
world.

Once you have chosen your language and have entered your user
credentials, you will be able to click the Login button to access the
CRM.

image:191Log_in.png[191Log_in.png,title="191Log_in.png"]

[[forgotten-password]]
Forgotten Password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you forget your CRM password and cannot access your CRM user account,
you can use the 'Forgotten Password' feature to re-send your password to
the email address associated to your user account. Clicking the 'Forgot
Password?' link on the login form will display the forgotten password
form.

image:179Forgot_password.png[179Forgot_password.png,title="179Forgot_password.png"]

[[summary]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter we have demonstrated how to access SuiteCRM using the
login form. We have also established how to use the forgotten password
functionality to retrieve a users password in the event of the password
being lost or forgotten.

In the next chapter we will cover the User Wizard, which allows you to
set your preferences when using SuiteCRM.

[[user-wizard]]
User Wizard
-----------

The User Wizard guides you through the configuration options available
to you post login. This allows you to select many formats for data that
will display in SuiteCRM, and these are specific to your user.

[[welcome-to-suitecrm]]
Welcome to SuiteCRM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first step you will see is a simple welcome page that displays once
you have logged in. Click 'Next' on this page to progress to configure
your user preferences.

image:04SuiteCRM_welcome.png[04SuiteCRM_welcome.png,title="04SuiteCRM_welcome.png"]

[[your-information]]
Your Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this screen you are able to provide information about yourself. When
you provide this information, other users can view this information such
as your Full Name, Email Address and Contact details. Fields marked with
a red star(*) are required fields, and as such need to be filled in with
valid data before you can progress.

image:05Welcome_info.png[05Welcome_info.png,title="05Welcome_info.png"]

Once you have filled in all information on this page, click 'Next' to
progress to the next step in the wizard.

[[your-locale]]
Your Locale
~~~~~~~~~~~

On this screen, you are able to specify your preferred Locale settings.

image:06SuiteCRM_Locale.png[06SuiteCRM_Locale.png,title="06SuiteCRM_Locale.png"]

[[currency-selection]]
Currency Selection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the Currency you wish to be displayed for all Currency fields
within SuiteCRM. The Currency options are populated from the options
added by the System Administrator. If there are Currency options you
require but do not see, please contact your System Administrator.

image:180Currency_selection.png[180Currency_selection.png,title="180Currency_selection.png"]

[[date-format]]
Date Format
~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the Date Format you wish to be displayed for all Date fields
within SuiteCRM. There are many different date format options to select
from, all of which are specific to your user. This date format will also
apply to Date Time fields.

image:08Date_format.png[08Date_format.png,title="08Date_format.png"]

[[time-zone]]
Time Zone
~~~~~~~~~

Select the Time Zone you wish to use within SuiteCRM. This allows you to
tailor your use of SuiteCRM specific to where you are located globally.
If you are travelling between various countries, you can change the Time
Zone at any time in your User Preferences after you Wizard set-up, to
allow you to view records in that Time Zone.

image:09Time_zone.png[09Time_zone.png,title="09Time_zone.png"]

[[name-format]]
Name Format
~~~~~~~~~~~

Select the Name Format you wish to be displayed for all Name fields
within SuiteCRM. This is applicable to the various 'Person' modules
within SuiteCRM, and allows you to set your preferred name format
dependent on your requirement.

image:181Name_format.png[181Name_format.png,title="181Name_format.png"]

Once you have specified all of your Locale preferences, click 'Next' to
progress to the final step/confirmation page of the User Wizard.

[[final-step]]
Final Step
~~~~~~~~~~

The final step of the User Wizard provides you with multiple useful
links for learning more and obtaining further support from the SuiteCRM
website and dedicated team. There is a 'Back' button if you have made
any mistakes you wish to amend in previous steps.

image:image12.png[image12.png,title="image12.png"]

Clicking 'Finish' will complete the User Wizard and will present you
with SuiteCRM login form.

[[summary-1]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter, we progressed through the User Wizard. This allows you
to set your preferences when using SuiteCRM.

In the next chapter, we will cover managing user accounts, which will
discuss how to update user details, select themes, change passwords and
more.

[[managing-user-accounts]]
Managing User Accounts
----------------------

There are many configuration options available to users once logged into
the system. You can view/modify your preferences by clicking on your
name in the top right section of the navigation menu.

image:11User_select.png[11User_select.png,title="11User_select.png"]

[[user-profile-tab]]
User Profile Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once you have clicked to access your preferences, you will be taken to
the 'User Profile' tab which gives an overview of you credentials such
as Username, First Name, Last Name, Title etc.

image:12User_profile.png[12User_profile.png,title="12User_profile.png"]

[[password-tab]]
Password Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Clicking on the 'Password' tab will navigate you to allow you to change
your user account password. To change your password, specify a new
password and confirm the new password. It is recommended that passwords
are secure. The recommended minimum requirement is one upper case
character, one lower case character, one numerical character and a
minimum password length of 8 characters.

image:13Password_tab.png[13Password_tab.png,title="13Password_tab.png"]

If you have forgotten your password and cannot login, you can use the
forgotten password functionality detailed in the
link:#Getting_Started[Getting Started] section of this User Guide.

[[themes-tab]]
Themes Tab
~~~~~~~~~~

You can easily manage the theme you are using to view SuiteCRM by
navigating to the Themes Tab. This tab allows you to easily select the
desired theme, and also shows a theme preview image (assuming this has
also been provided with any third party or additional themes).

image:image16.png[image16.png,title="image16.png"]

[[advanced-tab]]
Advanced Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Advanced tab provides you with you preferences that you set during
the User Wizard process. This gives you the ability to change any of
your user preferences, if there were any mistakes or if you require to
amend these at a later date.

image:14Advanced_tab.png[14Advanced_tab.png,title="14Advanced_tab.png"]

[[resetting-a-users-preferences]]
Resetting a Users Preferences
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can reset your user preferences to the system default by clicking
the 'Reset User Preferences' button on your profile.

image:15User_preference.png[15User_preference.png,title="15User_preference.png"]

Clicking the button will prompt you to ensure you wish to reset your
user preferences, with the following message: “Are you sure you want
reset all of your user preferences? Warning: This will also log you out
of the application.”. you can then click 'OK' or 'Cancel' to action
appropriately. If you select 'OK' you will be logged out and will need
to re-login to SuiteCRM application.

[[resetting-a-users-home-page]]
Resetting a Users home page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can reset your home page to the system default by clicking the
'Reset home page' button on your profile. This will reset both dashlet
and dashboard preferences/layouts to the system default.

image:16Reset_homepage.png[16Reset_homepage.png,title="16Reset_homepage.png"]

Clicking the button will prompt you to ensure you wish to reset your
home page, with the following message: “Are you sure you want reset your
home page?”. you can then click 'OK' or 'Cancel' to action
appropriately.

[[summary-2]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter, we covered managing a user account. This allows you to
manage your information, modify/reset user preferences and more.

In the next chapter, we will cover the Interface. The Interface is an
integral part of SuiteCRM. With the knowledge of your Interface, you can
progress to learning more about SuiteCRM functionality and processes.

[[user-interface]]
User Interface
--------------

Before we progress to understanding the structure and functionality of
SuiteCRM, we will cover the areas of the User Interface so that you are
familiar with terminology used when describing navigating SuiteCRM.
There are many elements to the User Interface, so we have broken these
down into various sections below.

[[navigation-elements]]
Navigation Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ability to easily view and navigate to areas of the CRM is key to
improved productivity and user adoption. SuiteCRM has a clear UI which
has various elements we will cover in this section.

[[top-navigation-menu]]
Top navigation menu
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The top navigation menu is the main menu users will use to navigate to
modules to create and manage records. The standard layout for the top
navigation is a list of 10 modules. The ordering for this menu is
determined by the order of the modules in Admin → Display Modules and
Subpanels. The top navigation menu has six elements. These are:

* CRM Name – This is the name for the CRM which is specified on
installation. This defaults to SuiteCRM.
* Module Menu – This lists or groups the modules, dependent on the user
preference. This provides the ability for users to navigate to modules
within the CRM.
* Desktop Notification Count – This shows the number of desktop
notifications the user has not yet read. These can be managed by the
user. For full details on Desktop Notifications, see the
link:#Desktop_Notifications[Desktop Notifications] section within this
user guide.
* Quick Create – Quick create allows the quick creation of key module
records globally within the CRM.
* Global/Full Text Search – Allows users to search the CRM globally for
records/data.
* User menu – This displays the user name for the user currently logged
in. There is a drop down menu which gives users access to Employees,
their profile, the about page and a link to logout.

image:17Navigation_menu.png[17Navigation_menu.png,title="17Navigation_menu.png"]

To view a module, you can click on the module name. This will take you
to the List View of that module. For full details on views, read the
link:#Views[Views] section of this user guide.

Hovering over a module name will produce a drop down menu. This drop
down menu displays the Actions and Recently Viewed records for that
module.

image:18Dropdown_menu.png[18Dropdown_menu.png,title="18Dropdown_menu.png"]

You can edit records displayed in the Recently Viewed section of the
drop down menu by clicking the pencil icon. This will direct you to the
Edit View for that record.

image:19Recently_viewed.png[19Recently_viewed.png,title="19Recently_viewed.png"]

There is also a grouped tab navigation structure for SuiteCRM. Users can
set this option in their user preferences. For full details on modifying
user preferences, see the link:#Managing_User_Accounts[Managing User
Accounts] section of this user guide.

image:20.png[20.png,title="20.png"]

The grouped tab navigation menu gives the user the ability to group
modules within a tab such as the Sales Tab.

image:21Grouped_tab.png[21Grouped_tab.png,title="21Grouped_tab.png"]

[[quick-create]]
Quick Create
^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can click the 'create' icon in the top navigation menu to access the
Quick Create options. This is a list of commonly used modules with the
ability to create new records within these modules from any location.

image:22Quick_create.png[22Quick_create.png,title="22Quick_create.png"]

[[sidebar]]
Sidebar
^^^^^^^

The sidebar is part of the responsive theme and is a user configurable
option. The sidebar can be expanded and collapsed by clicking on the
button highlighted below.

image:23Sidebar.png[23Sidebar.png,title="23Sidebar.png"]

*Actions*

This displays the Actions for the module you are currently viewing. For
example, if you are viewing the Accounts module, the actions that
display are: Create Account, View Accounts, Import Accounts. This
provides you with one-click access to module actions.

*Recently Viewed*

This section displays the last 10 records you have viewed. This leaves a
breadcrumbs trail so that previously viewed records can be quickly and
easily accessed via the sidebar. There is also the option to click the
pencil icon, which will take you directly to the Edit View of the
record.

[[home-page]]
Home Page
~~~~~~~~~

The home page is the first page that is displayed to you
post-authentication. The home page has various elements that can be used
and configured such as Dashlets, Dashboards and the Sidebar.

[[dashlets]]
Dashlets
^^^^^^^^

Dashlets are user-configurable sections displayed on the home page that
give you a quick overview of your records and activity immediately after
login. This is particularly useful for sales and support led teams as
this reduces the number of clicks required to view/modify data.

Dashlets can be dragged/dropped within the home page. You can add
dashlets by clicking the 'Add Dashlets' link on the home page.

image:24Add_dashlets.png[24Add_dashlets.png,title="24Add_dashlets.png"]

Clicking on the 'Add Dashlets' link on the home page will open up the
Add Dashlets popup which allows users to select from a multitude of out
of the box dashlets.

image:25Add_dashlets.png[25Add_dashlets.png,title="25Add_dashlets.png"]

To add one of the dashlets, simply click on the dashlet link. This will
add the dashlet to the user home page. The popup will remain if you add
a dashlet, to allow users to add multiple dashlets. Once you have added
your required dashlets, you can close the popup.

image:26Dashlet.png[26Dashlet.png,title="26Dashlet.png"]

You can modify dashlets by clicking the pencil icon on the desired
dashlet.

image:27Modify_dashlet.png[27Modify_dashlet.png,title="27Modify_dashlet.png"]

Clicking the pencil icon will display a popup. This popup will contain
all of the options that are configurable for the dashlet.

image:28Configure_dashlet.png[28Configure_dashlet.png,title="28Configure_dashlet.png"]

Once you have made the required changes in the dashlet configuration
popup, you can click 'Save' to apply the changes, or cancel if you wish
to revert to the current configuration.

_Note: Some dashlets require the home page to be reloaded. For dashlets
that require this, you will be notified._

[[dashboards]]
Dashboards
^^^^^^^^^^

Dashboards are new in SuiteCRM. These are configurable per user and can
be added/removed similar to dashlets. To add a dashboard tab, you can
click the 'Add Tab' link on the homepage.

image:29Add_tab.png[29Add_tab.png,title="29Add_tab.png"]

Clicking on the 'Add Tab' link on the home page will open up the Add Tab
popup which allows users to specify a name for the tab and also how many
dashlet columns are required. You can opt for one, two or three columns.

image:192Add_tab.png[192Add_tab.png,title="192Add_tab.png"]

Once you have specified the details for the dashboard tab, you can click
'Save'. You can also click 'Cancel' to undo any changes. Once you have
saved your changes, the Dashboard Tab will be added and will display on
the tab list on user Homepage. You can then add Dashlets to your new
dashboard tab.

image:31New_tab.png[31New_tab.png,title="31New_tab.png"]

If you wish to delete the dashboard tab, you can click the 'x' icon.
This will prompt you to confirm the deletion and then subsequently
remove the dashboard tab from your profile only. Note: 'Suite Dashboard'
is the standard dashboard tab which cannot be removed. You can however
configure the dashlets that display on that dashboard tab.

[[activity-stream]]
Activity Stream
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Activity Stream is an excellent way of keeping track of your
colleague's interactions with SuiteCRM. By default the Activity Stream
displays recent updates for the Opportunities, Contacts, Leads and Cases
modules. Your organisation's Facebook and Twitter feeds can also be
included in your Activity Steam dashlets if desired and this can be
configurable by an Admin user.

image:32Activity_stream.png[32Activity_stream.png,title="32Activity_stream.png"]

You can also comment about an update within the Activity Stream by
clicking on the Reply button on the right side of the post.

image:33Reply.png[33Reply.png,title="33Reply.png"]

Your posts can also be deleted from the Activity Stream by clicking on
the Delete button.

image:34Delet3.png[34Delet3.png,title="34Delet3.png"]

Your comment will appear under the original post and will also be
timestamped.

The Activity Stream is also a useful tool for internal messaging within
your organisation, it is possible to send a message that will be
broadcast to all users in your network. To do this type your message in
the text field and click post.

image:35Activity_post.png[35Activity_post.png,title="35Activity_post.png"]

Your colleagues will see this message and will be able to respond by
clicking on the Reply button on the right side of the post.

image:36Reply.png[36Reply.png,title="36Reply.png"]

Their response will appear under your post, again with a timestamp.

image:37Reply_view.png[37Reply_view.png,title="37Reply_view.png"]

[[search]]
Search
~~~~~~

Searching is a vital aspect within the CRM as this allows you to quickly
define what it is you want to see. Many CRM's will have large data sets
so it is vital to you that you have a way to refine your search. In the
following sub-sections we will cover the various searching options
available to you.

[[global-search]]
Global Search
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can search all records within the CRM using the global search
functionality. You can search for records via global search by using the
search bar in the main navigation menu.

image:38Search.png[38Search.png,title="38Search.png"]

Once you have entered your search term, you can press the return key or
click the magnifying glass/search icon. This will return records that
match the search criteria and categorise them by the modules available.

image:39Search.png[39Search.png,title="39Search.png"]

Modules can be added to the global search functionality by the System
Administrator.

[[full-text-search]]
Full Text Search
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

SuiteCRM has an option to enable or disable a full text global search.
The full text global search is powered by
http://framework.zend.com/manual/1.12/en/zend.search.lucene.overview.html[Zend
Lucene] search framework. The search works very similar to the standard
global search, but provides the enhanced functionality of searching text
in documents and other files, compared to the record-level search
provided by the standard global search.

_Note: System Administrators can enable/disable the full text search by
clicking on the AOD Settings link within the admin panel._

image:169AOD_Settings.png[169AOD_Settings.png,title="169AOD_Settings.png"]

This will display the AOD option to enable/disable the full text search.

image:170Enable_AOD.png[170Enable_AOD.png,title="170Enable_AOD.png"]

The search returns results slightly different to global search. Results
are returned in order of score. Records are scored dependent on how well
you match the search criteria provided by you – from 0-100%.

image:171Search_results.png[171Search_results.png,title="171Search_results.png"]

[[basic-module-search]]
Basic Module Search
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Basic search is available on all modules within the CRM. Basic search,
as standard, allows users to search on the record name.

image:193Search_button.png[193Search_button.png,title="193Search_button.png"]

image:194Search_box.png[194Search_box.png,title="fig:194Search_box.png"]]]

Basic search also allows users to check the 'My Items' check box.
Enabling this option will only return records that are assigned to you.

image:195Search_my_items.png[195Search_my_items.png,title="195Search_my_items.png"]

Once a user has searched for a record, the search will be saved. This
means that you can navigate to records and other modules within the CRM
but the search will not be cleared. If you wish to clear your search,
you can click 'Clear' and then click 'Search'. This will clear any saved
searches and return to the default result set for that module.

_Note: System Administrators can modify which fields are searchable in
Basic Search within Studio._

[[advanced-module-search]]
Advanced Module Search
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Advanced Search is available on all modules within the CRM. Advanced
Search provides you with a more detailed module search functionality. As
standard, there are more fields available to you via Advanced Search.

image:196Advanced_search.png[196Advanced_search.png,title="196Advanced_search.png"]

You can add further fields to the Advanced Search section by expanding
the 'Layout Options' panel.

image:image43.png[image43.png,title="image43.png"]

You can click the field you wish to display/hide and click the arrows to
move these fields between sections. This allows users to display/hide
columns to further customise the Advanced Search section.

Advanced Searches may have many fields and specific criteria. For this
reason, You can save your advanced search criteria to easily populate
this in future.

image:197Save_search.png[197Save_search.png,title="197Save_search.png"]

To load a saved search, you can select the saved search from the 'My
Filters' drop down. This will return results that match the criteria
specified in the saved search.

image:198Saved_search.png[198Saved_search.png,title="198Saved_search.png"]

_Note: System Administrators can modify which fields are searchable in
Advanced Search within Studio._

[[views]]
Views
~~~~~

Within the CRM you will be presented with various views. These views are
structured to present you with key information through the record
management process. There are three main views:

* List View
* Detail View
* Edit View

All of these views have specific purposes and these are described in the
sub-sections below.

[[list-view]]
List View
^^^^^^^^^

This is the view that you are presented with when you navigate to your
desired module.

image:40List_view.png[40List_view.png,title="40List_view.png"]

The List View compromises of many actions that you can carry out to
manage records. These are:

* Search Records – provides you with the ability to perform basic and
advanced searches, as covered previously in the link:#Search[Search]
section of this chapter.
* Sort Records – clicking on the column name will sort the record list
by that column either ascending or descending, if sorting is enabled.
* View Records – clicking on any hyperlinked data will take you to the
Detail View of the record.
* Edit Records – clicking the pencil icon will navigate you to the Edit
View for that record.
* Delete Records – you can select records and then select the delete
option to delete records from the module.
* Mass Update Records – you can select records and then select the mass
update option to update data on all selected records.
* Merge Records – you can select records and select the merge option.
This will begin the merge records processes. You can select a primary
record and then can merge the data from the duplicate records into the
primary record. Once saved, the duplicate records will be deleted and
all data/history merged to the primary record.

[[detail-view]]
Detail View
^^^^^^^^^^^

This is the view that you are presented with when you view a record.

image:41Detail_view.png[41Detail_view.png,title="41Detail_view.png"]

The Detail View compromises of many actions that you can use to
view/manage your data. These are specific to the Detail View of the
module that you are viewing. There are standard actions on the Detail
View for most modules. These are:

* Edit – allows you to edit the record you are viewing.
* Duplicate – allows you to duplicate the record the are viewing.
* Delete – allows you to delete the record you are viewing. If a record
is deleted, you will be redirected to the List View.
* Find Duplicates – allows you to begin the find duplicates process
where you can use system functionality to find duplicate records.
* View Change Log – allows you to view changes to audited fields.

_Note: To set fields as audited and for any changes to find duplicates,
contact your System Administrator._

Hyperlinked fields can be clicked on. This will navigate you to that
record.

The Detail View is tabbed in SuiteCRM. This means there is minimal
scrolling and data is categorised for each module in the appropriate
tab.

_Note: System Administrators can select to display data in either tabs
or panels. You can contact your system administrator for more
information on managing layouts and views._

[[edit-view]]
Edit View
^^^^^^^^^

This is the view that you are presented with when you edit a record.

image:42Edit_view.png[42Edit_view.png,title="42Edit_view.png"]

The Edit View allows you to modify record information that is displayed
on the view. This allows users to update existing data and also
add/remove data. Once you have made changes on the Edit View, you can
click 'Save' to apply to changes or click 'Cancel'. Clicking either
options will redirect you to the Detail View of the record you are
editing. You can click the 'View Change Log' button. This allows users
to view changes to audited fields which can be useful before making your
intended changes.

[[record-management]]
Record Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We have covered the several views that you are presented with so we will
now move onto record management. In this section we will cover all areas
of record management so that you can efficiently store and manage
customer data.

[[creating-records]]
Creating Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create records within modules from various different areas of
your Interface. Detailed below are screen shots of record creation
points.

image:43Create_record1.png[43Create_record1.png,title="43Create_record1.png"]

image:44Create_record2.png[44Create_record2.png,title="44Create_record2.png"]

image:45Create_record_3.png[45Create_record_3.png,title="45Create_record_3.png"]

Once you click the create button, you will be taken to the creation
screen. This is essentially the Edit View that we have covered
previously in the link:#User_Interface[User Interface] section. This
allows you to fill in the appropriate data for that record. Fields with
the red star(*) are required fields. Validation is performed so that a
record cannot be saved within the CRM unless data is valid for required
fields.

image:46Create_contact.png[46Create_contact.png,title="46Create_contact.png"]

Once you have populated all data for the record, you can save the record
which will create the record within the module in the CRM. Once saved,
you will be redirected to the Detail View of the record you have
created.

[[editing-records]]
Editing Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can edit records within modules from various different areas of your
Interface. Detailed below are screen shots of record editing points.

image:47Edit_contact.png[47Edit_contact.png,title="47Edit_contact.png"]

image:48Edit_contact.png[48Edit_contact.png,title="48Edit_contact.png"]

Once you click the edit button(or pencil), you will be taken to the Edit
View. This allows you to edit/populate the appropriate data for that
record. Fields with the red star(*) are required fields. Validation is
performed so that a record cannot be saved within the CRM unless data is
valid for required fields.

Once you have edited/populated the record data, you can save the record
which will update the existing record with the new data populated when
editing. Once saved, you will be redirected to the Detail View of the
record you have edited.

[[deleting-records]]
Deleting Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can delete records within modules from both the List View and Detail
View. Detailed below are screen shots of record editing points:

*Detail View Deletion method*

Deleting records from the Detail View is a simple process. You simply
have to click the 'Delete' button.

image:49Delete_contact.png[49Delete_contact.png,title="49Delete_contact.png"]

When you click the delete button on a record, you will receive a popup
which will ask you to confirm that you want to delete the record.

image:50Delete_contact.png[50Delete_contact.png,title="50Delete_contact.png"]

You can either click Cancel or OK. Clicking Cancel will revert you back
to the Detail View of the record and will not delete it. Clicking OK
will action the record deletion. If you choose to delete the record, the
record will be deleted and you will be redirected to the module List
View.

*List View Deletion method*

To delete records from the List View, you can select records using the
checkbox option on the left hand side of the view. It is possible to
select single records or use the 'Select this Page' or 'Select All'
options, to select all records from the page or all records within the
module.

image:51ListView_deletion.png[51ListView_deletion.png,title="51ListView_deletion.png"]

Once the records are selected to delete, you can click the 'Delete'
button. When you click the delete button on a record, you will receive a
popup which will display the number of records being deleted and ask you
to confirm that you want to delete the record.

image:image59.png[image59.png,title="image59.png"]

You can either click Cancel or OK. Clicking Cancel will revert you back
to the Detail View of the record and will not delete it. Clicking OK
will action the record deletion. If you choose to delete the record, the
record will be deleted and you will be redirected to the module List
View.

[[mass-updating-records]]
Mass Updating Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can mass update records from the List View of any module, given this
option is made available to you. To mass update records, you have to
check the records in the List View and then select the 'Mass Update'
option from the dropdown menu (next to the delete link).

image:52Mass_update_records.png[52Mass_update_records.png,title="52Mass_update_records.png"]

Clicking the mass update option will display a screen at the bottom of
the List View. This will list all fields that can be mass updated by
you.

image:53Mass_update.png[53Mass_update.png,title="53Mass_update.png"]

Once you have populated the fields you wish to mass update, you can
either click 'Update' or 'Cancel'. Cancelling the mass update will
cancel any changes and redirect you to the List View of the module.
Clicking update will update all selected records with the changes
specified in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass Updating Records]
section.

image:54Mass_update.png[54Mass_update.png,title="54Mass_update.png"]

[[merging-records]]
Merging Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can merge records from the List View of any module, given this
option is made available to you, or via the Detail View if you follow
the 'Find Duplicates' process.

To merge records, you have to check the records in the List View and
then select the 'Merge' option from the dropdown menu (next to the
delete link).

image:55Merge.png[55Merge.png,title="55Merge.png"]

Once you have clicked on the 'Merge' option, you will be presented with
a merge screen. This will show the primary record and the duplicates
that you wish to merge with that primary record.

image:182Merging_records.png[182Merging_records.png,title="182Merging_records.png"]

You can select which record is primary using the 'Set as primary' button
on the right of the merge view. You can move data from the duplicate
records to the primary record using the '<<' buttons. In this example,
we have moved the First Name and Last Name from the duplicate record to
the primary record.

image:183Merging_records.png[183Merging_records.png,title="183Merging_records.png"]

Once you have made the required changes on the merge screen, you can
click 'Save Merge' or 'Cancel'. Clicking cancel will discard the merge
changes and will revert you to the List View for that module. Clicking
'Save Merge' will continue the Merge process and will prompt you to
inform you that the duplicate record will be deleted.

image:184Save_merge.png[184Save_merge.png,title="184Save_merge.png"]

You can click 'OK' or 'Cancel'. Clicking Cancel will discard the merge
changes and will revert you to the List View for that module. Clicking
'OK' will save the merge and will redirect you to the Detail View for
the merged record.

image:185Saved_merge.png[185Saved_merge.png,title="185Saved_merge.png"]

As can be seen from the example, the merge has completed successfully.
The First Name and Last Name have been updated, and all other data has
been retained.

[[importing-records]]
Importing Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to import data easily by using SuiteCRM's easy-to-use
User Import Wizard. There are many hints and tips as you progress
through the Import Wizard on the requirements of importing data and for
further steps in the Wizard.

*User Import Wizard features*

There are many features of the Import Wizard which make it easier for
you to map data to CRM fields and also for future imports. These are:

* Sample .csv file for easier import of data — Use the available sample
.csv file as a template for import of files
* Retain settings from previous imports — Save/preserve import file
properties, mappings, and duplicate check indexes from previous imports
for ease of current data import process
* Ability to accept both database name and display labels of drop-down
and multi-select field items — Field labels as well as database names
are accepted and mapped during import, but only the field labels are
displayed for ease of use
* Ability to accept both usernames and full names in user fields during
import and export of data — Full names of Users displayed for Assigned
To and other User-related fields in exported .csv file for easier
identification of user records
* Ability to auto-detect file properties in import file — Upload import
files without specifying file properties such as tab, comma, double and
single quotes, date and time formats, making the process simpler and
faster
* Ability to import contacts from external sources such as Google —
Ability to import Google Contacts for person-type modules such as
Contacts, Leads, and Targets, relate SuiteCRM records to Google
Contacts, and communicate with Google Contacts from within SuiteCRM

*Steps to Import data*

_Note: Always import the Account data first and then import Contacts and
other data related to Accounts (such as Meetings, Calls, Notes) to
automatically create a relationship between the imported Account and
Contacts and activity records related to the Account._

Follow the steps listed below to import data for a module, such as
Accounts:

1.  Select Import from the Actions drop-down list in the module menu
options.
2.  This displays Step 1 of the import process with a link to a sample
Import File Template.
3.  Upload your import file to this page using the Browse button in the
Select File field or,
4.  Optionally, download the available template, delete the existing
data, input your data and upload to this page using the Browse button.
5.  Click Next.
6.  This displays Step 2 (Confirm Import File Properties).
7.  Auto-detection of imported data takes place at this step.
8.  Click View Import File Properties button to verify and change the
data as needed, if you notice irregularities in the Confirm Import File
Properties table.
9.  Click the Hide Import File Properties to collapse the panel.
10. Click Next.
11. This displays Step 3: Confirm Field Mappings.
12. The table in this page displays all the fields in the module that
can be mapped to the data in the import file. If the file contains a
header row, the columns in the file map to matching fields.
13. Check for correct mapping and modify if necessary.
14. Map to all of the required fields (indicated by an asterisk).
15. Click Next.
16. This displays Step 4: Check for Possible Duplicates.
17. Follow the instructions on this page.
18. Step 4 also provides the option of saving the current import file
properties, mappings, and duplicate check indexes for future imports.
19. (Optionally) Save the import settings.
20. Click Import Now.
21. Click the Errors tab to check for errors in the process. Follow the
instructions to fix problems (if any) and Click Import Again.
22. This displays Step 1 of the import process.
23. Follow all the steps in the wizard through Step 5.
24. If the import was successful, you can to view all the imported
records at Step 5.
25. Click Undo Import if you are not satisfied with the imported
records,
26. Or, click Import Again to import more data
27. Or, click Exit to navigate to the List View page of the module that
you imported your records into.

[[exporting-records]]
Exporting Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can export SuiteCRM records in .csv format. When you exports records
from the CRM, you will be provided with the .csv file to download when
the export has finished executing. You can save and open this file in
applications such as Libre Office Calc or Microsoft Office Excel.

The .csv file displays in a tabular format with columns and rows. When
data is exported from the CRM, the record ID is included with all other
fields that are specified in the export list for that module. You can
then use the record ID as a reference for performing a 'Create new
records and update existing records' import, as detailed in the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] section of the user guide.

_Note: When exporting values from drop-down lists, SuiteCRM exports the
ID associated with each option and not the display labels. For example,
if a drop down list has options labelled High, Medium and Low with an ID
of 1, 2 and 3 – the .csv file will show the drop down options as 1, 2 or
3._

*Steps to Export Records*

1.  Select the records from the List View on the module's home page.
2.  Select Export from the Actions drop-down menu in the List View.
3.  To export all records listed on the page, click Select located above
the item list and select one of the following options:
4.  This Page. To export all the records listed on the page, select this
option.
5.  All Records. To export all records on the list (if it is more than a
page long), select this option.
6.  This displays an Opening.csv dialog box.
7.  Select Open to open the export file in .csv format or select Save to
Disk to save the .csv file to your local machine.
8.  Click OK to execute the operation. If you chose to open the file,
the csv file opens in Microsoft Excel.
9.  The file contains all the fields in the module from which you are
exporting the data.

[[in-line-editing]]
In-line Editing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In-line editing gives you the ability to change values “on the fly”.
In-line editing has been implemented on both List View and Detail View,
providing an advantage to users wishing to change field values quickly,
reducing the number of clicks/processes that would normally be taken to
edit the full record.

_Note: In-line editing can be enabled/disabled for both List View and
Detail View. This can be done in the main System Settings for the CRM,
by the System Administrator._

image:186In-line_editing.png[186In-line_editing.png,title="186In-line_editing.png"]

[[list-view-in-line-editing]]
List View In-line Editing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can edit record information on the List View of a module using
in-line editing by clicking on a field where the pencil icon is shown.

image:60ListView_editing.png[60ListView_editing.png,title="60ListView_editing.png"]

You can either click on the pencil icon, or double click on the field to
edit the value.

image:61ListView_editing.png[61ListView_editing.png,title="61ListView_editing.png"]

Once you have made the required change to the field value, you can
either press Return or click on the 'tick'. This will save your changes.
If you navigate away without making any changes, you will see a prompt
warning you that you have made unsaved changes to the field being
edited.

image:image71.png[image71.png,title="image71.png"]

You can either click cancel and continue editing and saving your change,
or you can click OK which will discard the changes made.

[[detail-view-in-line-editing]]
Detail View In-line Editing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similar to List View, you can edit record information on the Detail View
of a module using in-line editing by clicking on a field where the
pencil icon is shown.

image:62DetailView_Editing.png[62DetailView_Editing.png,title="62DetailView_Editing.png"]

You can either click on the pencil icon, or double click on the field to
edit the value.

image:63DetailView_editing.png[63DetailView_editing.png,title="63DetailView_editing.png"]

Once you have made the required change to the field value, you can
either press Return or click on the 'tick'. This will save user changes.
If you navigate away without making any changes, you will see a prompt
warning you that you have made unsaved changes to the field being
edited.

image:image74.png[image74.png,title="image74.png"]

You can either click cancel and continue editing and saving your change,
or you can click OK which will discard the changes made.

[[desktop-notifications]]
Desktop Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[[enabling-desktop-notifications]]
Enabling Desktop Notifications
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can enable desktop notifications by accessing the 'Advanced' tab
within your user preferences. This will enable desktop notifications
only for that browser on that computer. you can choose to enable the
desktop notifications just for that browser session, or to always enable
desktop notifications.

_Note: Users will have to enable desktop notifications on all browsers
and computers if you use more than one._

image:199Enable_desktop_notifications.png[199Enable_desktop_notifications.png,title="199Enable_desktop_notifications.png"]

Once desktop notifications have been enabled, users will receive
notifications for any Calendar events such as:

* Meetings – Meetings you have been invited to that have popup reminders
set.
* Calls – Calls you have been invited to that have popup reminders set.

[[managing-desktop-notifications]]
Managing Desktop Notifications
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you have no notifications, the notification count will show '0' to
tell you you currently have no notifications to check.

image:65Managing_notifications.png[65Managing_notifications.png,title="65Managing_notifications.png"]

If you do not click on a desktop notification when it is displayed in
the browser, for example you are AFK(Away From Keyboard) your
notifications will be added to the notification list which shows as a
count on the main navigation bar.

image:66Managing_notifications.png[66Managing_notifications.png,title="66Managing_notifications.png"]

You can manage your desktop notifications by clicking the icon which
will show any existing notifications.

image:67Managing_notifications.png[67Managing_notifications.png,title="67Managing_notifications.png"]

You can either click the notification which will take you to the record
the notification is related to or you can click the small 'x' icon to
clear you immediately.

[[summary-3]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter, we covered all elements of the SuiteCRM user interface.
There are many elements which you can use to optimise your navigation
and data management, to increase productivity.

In the next chapter, we will look at modules. Modules are the data
entities within SuiteCRM which can be standalone, or related to one or
many other modules. Each module has a different function but many
modules work together to structure and automate day to day business
processes.

[[core-modules]]
Core Modules
------------

[[accounts]]
Accounts
~~~~~~~~

The Accounts module is the centralised base from which you can create an
association with most records in SuiteCRM. It is possible to create a
relationship with Contacts, Converted Leads, Opportunities, any Activity
such as Emails or Meetings and Cases. Accounts in SuiteCRM will
typically hold all information specific to a company that your
organisation will have a relationship with. In real world terms an
Account may be a business entity that is a qualified Sales Prospect,
Customer, Supplier or Re-seller and can be used to track all
interactions that take place between these entities and your
organisation.

[[accounts-actions]]
Accounts Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the accounts actions from the Accounts module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Accounts actions are as follows:

* Create Account – Once clicked, a new form is opened in Edit View to
allow you to create a new Account record.
* View Accounts – Once clicked, you will be redirected to the List View
for the Accounts module. This allows you to search and list Accounts
records.
* Import Accounts – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Accounts
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating an Account, See
link:#Accounts_Field_List[Accounts Field List].

[[managing-accounts]]
Managing Accounts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Accounts List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Account, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Accounts on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Account, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To merge duplicate Accounts, select the records from the Accounts List
View, click the Merge link in the Actions drop-down list, and progress
through the merge process. For more information on Merging Duplicates,
see the link:#Merging_Records[Merging Records] section of this user
guide.
* To delete one or multiple Accounts, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. you can also delete a Account from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Account, click the Account Name in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Account details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Accounts, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Account record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Account's Detail View or Edit
View.

[[contacts]]
Contacts
~~~~~~~~

In SuiteCRM a Contact is an individual who is typically associated with
an Account (organisation) or Opportunity (qualified prospect). For
example if Techco is the Account, then John Smith, Sales Manager of
Techco is the Contact. This module holds all information relating to
these individuals and also provides a vantage point for any history
relating to a Contact record, for example if they were involved in a
Meeting, raised a Case or sent an Email.

[[contacts-actions]]
Contacts Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Contacts actions from the Contacts module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Contacts actions are as follows:

* Create Contact – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Contact record.
* View Contacts – Redirects you to the List View for the Contacts
module. This allows you to search and list Contact records.
* Import Contacts – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Contacts
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating an Contact, See
link:#Contacts_Field_List[ Contacts Field List].

[[managing-contacts]]
Managing Contacts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Contacts List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Contact, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Contacts on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Contact, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To merge duplicate Contacts, select the records from the Contacts List
View, click the Merge link in the Actions drop-down list, and progress
through the merge process. For more information on Merging Duplicates,
see the link:#Merging_Records[Merging Records] section of this user
guide.
* To delete one or multiple Contacts, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Contact from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Contact, click the Contact Name in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Contact details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Contacts, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Contact record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Contact's Detail View or Edit
View.

[[opportunities]]
Opportunities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An Opportunity is a qualified Sales prospect with a likely chance that
they will be able to do business with your company. You have established
that they have buying power and have entered into the buying cycle. This
module allows you to track your Opportunities throughout the Sales
Pipeline until the deal is 'Closed Lost or 'Closed Won'.

[[opportunities-actions]]
Opportunities Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Opportunities actions from the Opportunities module
menu drop down or via the Sidebar. The Opportunities actions are as
follows:

* Create Opportunity – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Account record.
* View Opportunities – Redirects you to the List View for the
Opportunities module. This allows you to search and list Opportunity
records.
* Import Opportunities – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the
Opportunities module. For more information, see
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating an Opportunity,
See link:#Opportunities_Field_List[Opportunities Field List].

[[managing-opportunities]]
Managing Opportunities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Opportunities List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Opportunity, see the link:#Search[Search] section of
this user guide.
* To update some or all the Opportunities on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Opportunity, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To merge duplicate Opportunities, select the records from the
Opportunities List View, click the Merge link in the Actions drop-down
list, and progress through the merge process. For more information on
Merging Duplicates, see the link:#Merging_Records[Merging Records]
section of this user guide.
* To delete one or multiple Opportunities, you can select multiple
records from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a
Opportunity from the Detail View by clicking the delete button. For a
more detailed guide on deleting records, see the
link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records] section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Opportunity, click the Opportunity Name in
the List View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Opportunity details, click the Edit icon within the List
View or click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary
changes, and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Opportunities, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Opportunity record, you
can click the View Change Log button on the Opportunities Detail View or
Edit View.

[[leads]]
Leads
~~~~~

In SuiteCRM a Lead is an unqualified contact usually generated from some
form of marketing related event, for example it could be a person that
has filled out a form on your website or someone that you met at a trade
show and you are not sure yet if they have buying authority. Once a Lead
is qualified and converted then it can be split into three parts; a
Contact once you have established 'Who' it is, an Account when you know
'Where' they work and an Opportunity once it is known 'What' they might
buy.

[[leads-actions]]
Leads Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Leads actions from the Leads module menu drop down or
via the Sidebar. The Leads actions are as follows:

* Create Lead – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to create
a new Account record.
* View Leads – Redirects you to the List View for the Leads module. This
allows you to search and list Lead records.
* Import Leads – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Leads
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Lead, See
link:#Leads_Field_List[Leads Field List].

[[managing-leads]]
Managing Leads
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Leads List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Leads, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Leads on the List View, use the Mass Update
panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass Updating
Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Lead, you can click the Duplicate button on the Detail
View and then save the duplicate record.
* To merge duplicate Leads, select the records from the Leads List View,
click the Merge link in the Actions drop-down list, and progress through
the merge process. For more information on Merging Duplicates, see the
link:#Merging_Records[Merging Records] section of this user guide.
* To delete one or multiple Leads, you can select multiple records from
the List View and click delete. you can also delete a Lead from the
Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide on
deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Lead, click the Lead Name in the List View.
This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Lead details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Leads, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Lead record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Lead Detail View or Edit View.

[[converting-a-lead]]
Converting a Lead
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once enough information is gathered about a Lead, then the Lead can be
progressed to the next Sales stage and the Lead can be converted into a
Contact, Account and Opportunity. The way in which a Lead is converted
depends on how the System Administrator has set up SuiteCRM. To convert
a Lead with the default SuiteCRM setup you have to click on an
individual Lead record to access the Detail View of the Lead and click
on the arrow next to the Other button, then click on 'Convert Lead' from
the drop-down menu shown in the image below:

image:68Converting_a_lead.png[68Converting_a_lead.png,title="68Converting_a_lead.png"]

Once you have clicked on 'Convert Lead' button then you will be taken to
the Convert Lead page.

[[convert-lead-to-contact]]
Convert Lead to Contact
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On this page you will be able to Create or Select Contact:

image:69Convert_lead_to_contact.png[69Convert_lead_to_contact.png,title="69Convert_lead_to_contact.png"]

By deselecting the checkbox next to 'Create Contact' you will be able to
associate the Lead to an existing Contact. However, in most cases when
converting a Lead there will be no existing Contact. Make sure the
Create Contact checkbox is selected. Some of the fields will
automatically be populated using the Lead information. Fill out the
remaining relevant fields and move to the next Stage below:

[[convert-lead-to-account]]
Convert Lead to Account
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:70Convert_lead_to_account.png[70Convert_lead_to_account.png,title="70Convert_lead_to_account.png"]

To create an Account from a converted Lead you will follow the same
process as with a Contact, some information will populate from the Lead
automatically, just complete the rest.

[[convert-lead-to-opportunity]]
Convert Lead to Opportunity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:71Convert_lead_to_opportunity.png[71Convert_lead_to_opportunity.png,title="71Convert_lead_to_opportunity.png"]

To create an Opportunity from a converted Lead you will follow the same
process as with a Contact, some information will populate from the Lead
automatically, just complete the rest.

[[other-lead-conversion-options]]
Other Lead Conversion Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Other records can be created when converting a Lead in the same way as
Contacts/Accounts and Opportunities.

image:72Convert_lead_options.png[72Convert_lead_options.png,title="72Convert_lead_options.png"]

After you have completed the relevant sections click the Save button to
confirm the changes.

[[duplicate-record-check]]
Duplicate Record Check
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When converting a Lead SuiteCRM will automatically check for any
duplicate records and will return a warning if a matching record is
found.

image:73Duplicate_record_check.png[73Duplicate_record_check.png,title="73Duplicate_record_check.png"]

If you find that the duplicate warning is not valid and you still wish
to create a new record, then click the Create button. Otherwise if you
decide that the warning is correct and the record does already exist in
the CRM then you should click on the Select button.

[[calendar]]
Calendar
~~~~~~~~

The Calendar module in SuiteCRM allows you to manage your time by
scheduling Meetings, Calls and Tasks. Users may share their Calendar so
they can allow others to view their upcoming activities. These
activities will be displayed in the Calendar module given that the User
concerned is a participant or the task has been assigned to them.

[[calendar-actions]]
Calendar Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Calendar actions from the Calendar module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Calendar actions are as follows:

* Schedule Meetings – A new form is opened in the Edit View of the
Meetings module to allow you to create a new Meeting record. This record
will display on the Calendar.
* Schedule Calls – A new form is opened in the Edit View of the Call
module to allow you to create a new Call record. This record will
display on the Calendar.
* Create Task – A new form is opened in the Edit View of the Tasks
module to allow you to create a new Task record. This record will
display on the Calendar.
* Today – Redirects you to the Day format of the Calendar for the
current day.

[[calls]]
Calls
~~~~~

The Calls module in SuiteCRM allows Users to schedule and log a record
of inbound and outbound calls that they may be a participant of.

[[calls-actions]]
Calls Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Calls actions from the Calls module menu drop down or
via the Sidebar. The Calls actions are as follows:

* Log Call – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to create a
new Call record.
* View Calls – Redirects you to the List View for the Calls module. This
allows you to search and list Call records.
* Import Calls – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Calls
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when logging a Call, See
link:#Calls_Field_List[Calls Field List].

[[managing-calls]]
Managing Calls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Calls List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Call, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all of the Calls on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Call, you can click the Duplicate button on the Detail
View and then save the duplicate record.
* To close a Call, click on the 'x' icon on the Calls List View. You can
also close a Call by clicking the Close button on the Detail View of a
Call. You can also click the Close and Create New button. This will
close the Call you are viewing and redirect you to the Edit View to
create a new record.
* To Reschedule a call, you can click the Reschedule button on the
Detail View of a Call. For a detailed guide on rescheduling calls, see
the link:#Reschedule[Reschedule] section of this user guide.
* To delete one or multiple Calls, you can select multiple records from
the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Call from the
Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide on
deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Call, click the Call Subject in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Call details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Calls, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Call record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Call Detail View or Edit View.

[[meetings]]
Meetings
~~~~~~~~

Like the Calls module, the Meetings module in SuiteCRM allows Users to
create a record of any Meeting that they have been involved in. The
Meeting scheduler allows a User to invite attendees, email invitees, set
reminders, reschedule and relate to other modules including an Account,
Contact, Project and many other Objects. This module has many more
helpful functions that assist the User to plan and organise their
Meetings.

[[meetings-actions]]
Meetings Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Meetings actions from the Meetings module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Meetings actions are as follows:

* Schedule Meeting – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Meeting record.
* View Meetings – Redirects you to the List View for the Meetings
module. This allows you to search and list Meeting records.
* Import Meetings – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Meetings
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating scheduling a
Meeting, See link:#Meetings_Field_List[Meetings Field List].

[[managing-meetings]]
Managing Meetings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Meetings List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Meeting, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all of the Meetings on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Meeting, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To close a Meeting, click on the 'x' icon on the Meetings List View.
You can also close a Meeting by clicking the Close button on the Detail
View of a Meeting. You can also click the Close and Create New button.
This will close the Meeting you are viewing and redirect you to the Edit
View to create a new record.
* To Reschedule a Meeting, you can click the Reschedule button on the
Detail View of a Meeting. For a detailed guide on rescheduling Meetings,
see the link:#Reschedule[Reschedule] section of this user guide.
* To delete one or multiple Meetings, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Meeting from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Meeting, click the Meeting Subject in the
List View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Meeting details, click the Edit icon within the List View
or click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Meeting, see the
Import and Export link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Meeting record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Meeting's Detail View or Edit
View.

[[emails]]
Emails
~~~~~~

The Emails module in SuiteCRM allows Users to view, store, compose, send
and receive email from their own personal Email account or a shared
inbox, for example a Support or Sales inbox. Emails can be related to
Accounts, Cases, Contacts and many more records in the CRM.

[[emails-actions]]
Emails Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Emails actions from the Emails module menu drop down
or via the Sidebar. The Emails actions are as follows:

* View My Email – Redirects you to your mailbox so that you can view and
manage emails displayed/imported to the CRM.
* Create Email Template - A WYSIWYG editor where you can create Emails
by dragging and dropping components, inserting variables and amending
the plain text.
* View Email Templates - Takes you to the List View page of your
existing Email Templates. This allows you to search and list Email
Template records.

To view the full list of fields available for the Emails module, See
link:#Emails_Field_List[Emails Field List].

[[tasks]]
Tasks
~~~~~

SuiteCRM can assist Users with productivity, offering a way to record,
relate and assign Tasks and to-do items that require action.

[[tasks-actions]]
Tasks Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Tasks actions from the Tasks module menu drop down or
via the Sidebar. The Tasks actions are as follows:

* Create Task – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to create
a new Task record.
* View Tasks – Redirects you to the List View for the Tasks module. This
allows you to search and list Task records.
* Import Tasks – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Tasks
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Task, See
link:#Tasks_Field_List[Tasks Field List].

[[managing-tasks]]
Managing Tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Tasks List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Task, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all of the Task on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Task, you can click the Duplicate button on the Detail
View and then save the duplicate record.
* To close a Task, click on the 'x' icon on the Tasks List View. You can
also close a Meeting by clicking the Close button on the Detail View of
a Task. You can also click the Close and Create New button. This will
close the Task you are viewing and redirect you to the Edit View to
create a new record.
* To delete one or multiple Tasks, you can select multiple records from
the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Task from the
Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide on
deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Task, click the Meeting Subject in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Task details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Tasks, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Task record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Task's Detail View or Edit View.

[[notes]]
Notes
~~~~~

The Notes module in SuiteCRM can be used to keep a record of any
comments, observations or explanations that a User may have relating
internally to their organisation or relating to another SuiteCRM record
such as an Account, Contact, Lead or many more. Notes are also used to
keep record of interactions with Customers regarding Cases and Bugs.

[[notes-actions]]
Notes Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Notes actions from the Notes module menu drop down or
via the Sidebar. The Notes actions are as follows:

* Create Note or Attachment – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow
you to create a new Note record (with attachment).
* View Notes – Redirects you to the List View for the Notes module. This
allows you to search and list Note records.
* Import Notes – Redirects you will be taken to the Import Wizard for
the Notes module. For more information, see
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Note, See
link:#Notes_Field_List[Notes Field List].

[[managing-notes]]
Managing Notes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Notes List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Note, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Notes on the List View, use the Mass Update
panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass Updating
Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Note, you can click the Duplicate button on the Detail
View and then save the duplicate record.
* To delete one or multiple Notes, you can select multiple records from
the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Note from the
Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide on
deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Note, click the Note Subject in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Note details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Notes, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Note record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Note's Detail View or Edit View.

[[documents]]
Documents
~~~~~~~~~

The Documents module can be used as a repository for Customer issued or
internal files. This content can be uploaded, revised and viewed in
addition to relating to individual records within SuiteCRM.

[[documents-actions]]
Documents Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Documents actions from the Documents module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Documents actions are as follows:

* Create Document – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Document record.
* View Documents – Redirects you to the List View for the Documents
module. This allows you to search and list Document records.

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Document, See
link:#Documents_Field_List[Documents Field List].

[[managing-documents]]
Managing Documents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Documents List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Document, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Documents on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Document, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To delete one or multiple Documents, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Document from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Document, click the Document Name in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To view an attachment, click the attachment link on the List View or
Detail View of the Document. To update a document, you can create a
Document Revision.
* To edit the Document details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Documents, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Document record, you
can click the View Change Log button on the Document's Detail View or
Edit View.

[[document-revisions]]
Document Revisions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[[targets]]
Targets
~~~~~~~

Typically Targets are used as the recipients of a Marketing Campaign,
your organisation knows very little about these individuals and they may
be re-used for new Campaigns or deleted without any impact to the
business. Your organisation will spend little resources on Targets and
will usually be contacted en masse. Targets can be acquired from
purchased email lists or gathered from trade shows your organisation has
been present. The Targets module in SuiteCRM is used to store and manage
information about these individuals.

[[targets-actions]]
Targets Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Targets actions from the Targets module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Targets actions are as follows:

* Create Target – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Target record.
* View Targets – Redirects you to the List View for the Targets module.
This allows you to search and list Target records.
* Import Targets – Redirects you will be taken to the Import Wizard for
the Targets module. For more information, see
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Target, See
link:#Targets_Field_List[Targets Field List].

[[managing-targets]]
Managing Targets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Targets List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Target, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Targets on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Target, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To delete one or multiple Targets, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Target from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Target, click the Target Name in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Target details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Targets, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Target record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Target's Detail View or Edit
View.

[[target-lists]]
Target Lists
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Target Lists module in SuiteCRM is used to separate Targets into
groups, these can be groups of individuals that should be excluded from
a particular Campaign, test groups or a list of Targets grouped by
certain criteria, for example area or market an organisation works in.

[[target-lists-actions]]
Target Lists Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Target Lists actions from the Target Lists module
menu drop down or via the Sidebar. The Target Lists actions are as
follows:

* Create Target List – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Target List record.
* View Target Lists – Redirects you to the List View for the Target
Lists module. This allows you to search and list Target List records.

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Target List,
See link:#Target_Lists_Field_List[Target Lists Field List].

[[managing-target-lists]]
Managing Target Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Target List List View, click any column title
which is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or
descending.
* To search for a Target List, see the link:#Search[Search] section of
this user guide.
* To update some or all the Target Lists on the List View, use the Mass
Update panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass
Updating Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Target List, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To delete one or multiple Target Lists, you can select multiple
records from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a
Target List from the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a
more detailed guide on deleting records, see the
link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records] section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Target List, click the Target List Name in
the List View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Target List details, click Edit icon within the List View
or click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Target Lists, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Target List, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Target List's Detail View or
Edit View.

[[campaigns]]
Campaigns
~~~~~~~~~

The Campaigns module in SuiteCRM can be a very powerful marketing and
advertising tool for your organisation allowing you to create and track
Newsletter, Email and non-email Campaigns to prospective or existing
customers. With the tracking tools built into the Campaign module you
can monitor the response you receive from your Campaign in real time,
allowing you to view the return on investment (ROI) and many other
useful metrics. This in turn helps you to plan your strategic marketing
and advertising activities effectively by visualising which Campaigns
work and which do not.

[[campaign-actions]]
Campaign Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Campaign actions from the Campaign module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar. The Campaign actions are as follows:

* Create Campaign – This takes you to the Campaign Wizard page.
* View Campaigns – Redirects you to the List View for the Campaign
module. This allows you to search and list Campaign records.
* Create Email Template – A WYSIWYG editor where you can create emails
by dragging and dropping components, inserting variables and amending
the plain text.
* View Email Templates – Takes you to the List View page of your
existing Email Templates. This allows you to search and list Email
Template records.
* View Diagnostics – Allows you to check that your Campaign Emails and
Campaign schedulers are set up correctly. If this is the case then a
green tick icon will appear, if there are any issues with the setup then
a red cross icon will appear and you should contact your Admin for
assistance.
* Create Person Form – A web form template Wizard allowing you to create
Leads, Contacts and Targets.
* To view the full list of fields available when creating a Campaign,
See link:#Campaign_Fields_List[Campaign Fields List].

[[creating-a-campaign-via-campaign-wizard]]
Creating a Campaign via Campaign Wizard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To create a Campaign and to begin the Campaign Wizard click on the
Create Campaign button on the sidebar or module menu drop down while in
the Campaign module.

image:74Creating_a_campaign.png[74Creating_a_campaign.png,title="74Creating_a_campaign.png"]

Alternatively click on the Create button at the top right of the screen
when in the List View of the View Campaigns page. Once you click Create
Campaign then you will be presented with three options, Newsletter,
Email and Non-email based Campaign.

image:75Creating_a_campaign.png[75Creating_a_campaign.png,title="75Creating_a_campaign.png"]

[[campaign-wizard-header-and-budget]]
Campaign Wizard Header and Budget
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On clicking your selected Campaign icon you will be taken to the first
page of the Campaign Wizard, the Campaign Header page. In this page you
will be prompted to complete the required fields of Name and Status as
well as having the opportunity to record any information you may wish to
about your Campaign Budget (Campaign Budget is on a separate page for
Non-email based Campaigns).

image:76Creating_a_campaign.png[76Creating_a_campaign.png,title="76Creating_a_campaign.png"]

Once you have completed the necessary fields and are ready to progress
to the next stage then click Next.

image:77Creating_a_campaign.png[77Creating_a_campaign.png,title="77Creating_a_campaign.png"]

[[campaign-wizard-subscriptions-newsletter-campaigns-only]]
Campaign Wizard Subscriptions – Newsletter Campaigns Only
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For a Newsletter Campaign the next step of the Campaign Wizard allows
you to specify your Subscription information.

image:78Newsletter_campaign.png[78Newsletter_campaign.png,title="78Newsletter_campaign.png"]

This stage is made up of three components; the Subscription List,
Unsubscription List and Test List.

* The Subscription List - Allows you to set a Target List for your
Campaign. This Target List will be used to send out emails for this
Campaign. If you have not already created a Target List then an empty
list will be created for you and you can set this at a later time.
* The Unsubscription List - Allows you to set a Target List of
individuals who have opted out of your marketing and should not be
contacted through email. If you have not already created a Target List
then an empty list will be created for you and you can set this at a
later time.
* The Test List - Allows you to set a Target List to send out test
emails for this Campaign. If you have not already created a Target List
then an empty list will be created for you and you can set this at a
later time.

Once you have completed the necessary fields then click Next and you
will be taken to the Templates page which the next stage of the Campaign
Wizard.

[[campaign-wizard-target-lists-email-and-non-email-based-campaigns]]
Campaign Wizard Target Lists – Email and Non-Email Based Campaigns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For all Email and non-email based Campaign the next step of the Campaign
Wizard allows you to specify your Target Lists. For Email based
Campaigns this is where you would choose a list of people to Email based
on Existing Targets already created in the CRM. Or for Telesales
(non-email based) Campaigns for example this could be a list of people
that you would call.

image:79E-mail_campaign.png[79E-mail_campaign.png,title="79E-mail_campaign.png"]

Recipients that have previously opted out of your marketing Campaigns
will automatically be removed from your Target List.

image:80E-mail_campaign.png[80E-mail_campaign.png,title="80E-mail_campaign.png"]

If you have not at this stage created a Target List you can create an
empty one using the dropdown menu in the image above and populate it
after you have completed the rest of your Campaign setup by visiting the
link:#Target_Lists[Target Lists] page. The next step for non-email based
Campaigns is the link:#Campaign_Summary[Campaign Summary] page, Email
based Campaigns however should move onto the Campaign Templates page.

[[campaign-wizard-templates]]
Campaign Wizard Templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:81Campaign_template.png[81Campaign_template.png,title="81Campaign_template.png"]

This page is a WYSIWYG Newsletter Template editor so you can create a
template for your marketing emails.

image:82Campaign_template.png[82Campaign_template.png,title="82Campaign_template.png"]

The panel at the top presents you with three options which allows you to
select an existing template, create a brand new template or copy an
existing template.

* Select an existing template – You can select from a drop down list of
existing Email Templates
* Create a brand new template – If you wish to start the Newsletter from
scratch then you can select this option.
* Copy an existing template – Allows you select an existing template and
use this as a base to make amendments

Once you have chosen an Email Template you can decide you want to insert
a Tracker URL. This can be used to insert a link to your organisation's
website or direct link to a new product that you have launched. Also,
you are given the opportunity to place an 'Opt Out' link in your
template.

image:83Campaign_template.png[83Campaign_template.png,title="83Campaign_template.png"]

Please note that the 'Opt Out' link is added to the template
automatically even if you do not insert one at this point. Another
interesting feature of the Email Templates page is the ability to
personalise your templates by inserting variables. You can for example
insert the 'Account ID' variable in the subject line, or even insert the
addressee's first name and last name to add a more personal touch.

image:84Campaign_template.png[84Campaign_template.png,title="84Campaign_template.png"]

The WYSIWYG editor is displayed at the bottom of the Email Template
page, this editor allows you to visualise how your template will
actually look.

image:85Campaign_template.png[85Campaign_template.png,title="85Campaign_template.png"]

The panel on the left side of the editor allows you to drag and drop
different layout components to your template. These then can be edited
in the right side display panel. Once you have inserted a component into
the display panel you can click on the added item and the editor menu
will appear.

image:Email_Template_Editor.png[Email_Template_Editor.png,title="Email_Template_Editor.png"]

This menu provides you with a multitude of additional options which
allows you to customise the layout and appearance of your template. Font
type can be selected, formatted, colours changed, text alignment chosen,
images and even videos can be inserted.

Insert HTML by clicking Tools > Source Code

The bottom panel offers the option to include attachments with your
Email Template, this could be used if for example you wished to attach a
something like a product catalogue to your Newsletter. Once you are
satisfied with your Email Template you can click Next and you will be
taken to the Marketing page which is the next stage of the Campaign
Wizard.

[[campaign-wizard-marketing]]
Campaign Wizard Marketing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:87Campaign_marketing.png[87Campaign_marketing.png,title="87Campaign_marketing.png"]

This section of the Campaign Wizard allows you to specify the Email
settings for your Campaign including the Bounce Handling Account,
Outgoing Email Account, From/Reply-to Name and Address. In addition to
this, you can Schedule your Campaign by completing the Date and Time
fields. Once you are satisfied with your Email Settings and Schedule you
can click Next and you will be taken to the Summary page which is the
final stage of the Campaign Wizard.

[[campaign-wizard-summary]]
Campaign Wizard Summary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:Newsletter_Summary_Review.png[Newsletter_Summary_Review.png,title="Newsletter_Summary_Review.png"]

The Summary page includes a checklist which indicates that each page of
the Campaign Wizard has been completed satisfactorily. If a section is
complete then this is shown with green tick icon, otherwise this will be
highlighted with a red cross icon. If any section has not been completed
then SuiteCRM will not permit the Campaign to be sent. In this instance
in the image shown above the 'Choose Targets' section has not been
completed correctly as indicated by the red cross icon. This would be
resolved by clicking back to the Target List page and specifying a
Subscription List with at least one entry. Once you have ensured all
sections are complete then you can choose one of three options:

* Send Mail at Scheduled Time – You can click this once you are sure all
sections of the Campaign are set correctly and are confident that it is
the finished article.
* Send Marketing Email as Test – This option gives you the opportunity
to send out your Campaign to your Test List that you specified in the
Subscriptions section of the Campaign Wizard. By doing this you can view
the Campaign as a recipient and double check that the Campaign appears
as it should do before sending out to real prospective/live customers.
* View Details – By clicking this option you are taken to the Detail
View of the Campaign record you have just created through the Newsletter
Campaign Wizard.

[[create-person-form]]
Create Person Form
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Another feature of the Campaign module is the web form template Wizard
allowing you to create Leads, Contacts and Targets. This can be accessed
by clicking on the Create Person Form button from the dropdown menu in
the Campaign module or via the sidebar when in the module.

image:88Create_person_form.png[88Create_person_form.png,title="88Create_person_form.png"]

Once you have clicked this, you will be taken to the first page of the
Create Person Form Wizard.

image:89Create_person_form.png[89Create_person_form.png,title="89Create_person_form.png"]

This stage allows you to specify the type of person you would like to
create via your web form. The dropdown menu allows you to choose from a
Lead, Contact or Target. On selecting the person type you would like to
create the Available Fields dynamically change. Once you have chosen
this you can drag and drop the fields you would like to include on your
web form. Fields dropped into the First Form Column area are displayed
on the left side of your web form and the fields dropped into the Second
Form Column area are displayed on the right side of your web form. You
can choose to have 1 or 2 columns, all on the left side, right side or
on both sides. Please note as a minimum you need to include the required
fields included in your web form as indicated by an asterisk. Once you
are satisfied with the fields you wish to include click the Next button
to progress to the next stage.

[[create-person-form-additional-information]]
Create Person Form – Additional Information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:90Createperson_form.png[90Createperson_form.png,title="90Createperson_form.png"]

On this page you can configure your web form appearance by adding a Form
Header/Footer, Form Description, change the label on the Submit button
or change how the URL is displayed. As a minimum you have to relate the
web form to an existing Campaign and assign to a User before clicking
the Generate Form button to progress to the next stage.

[[create-person-form-editor]]
Create Person Form – Editor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

image:91Createperson_form.png[91Createperson_form.png,title="91Createperson_form.png"]

The final step of the Create Person Form Wizard allows you to format the
web form you have setup by using the WYSIWYG editor. This editor
provides you with a multitude of additional options which allows you to
customise the layout and appearance of your web form. Font type can be
selected, formatted, colours changed, text alignment chosen and images
can be inserted. Once you are happy with the appearance of your web form
click Save Web Form. On clicking this button you can either click on the
link to download the web form you have just created or copy and paste
the html to an existing document. By clicking the download link this
will save the html form in your download folder.

image:92Createperson_form.png[92Createperson_form.png,title="92Createperson_form.png"]

Please note that the web form will not be stored anywhere else on the
CRM, to ensure the html is saved please carry out one of the two steps
above.

[[campaign-response-tracking]]
Campaign Response Tracking
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When in the Detail View of a Campaign record you can access the inbuilt
Campaign response tracking by clicking the View Status button.

image:93View_status.png[93View_status.png,title="93View_status.png"]

On clicking this button you will be taken to the Status page for that
Campaign record. This page gives an overview of the Campaign details as
well as a graphical representation of your Campaign response including
the number of messages sent, bounced messages, how many viewers, opt
outs and how many clicked through links.

image:93Campaign_response.png[93Campaign_response.png,title="93Campaign_response.png"]

These fields are expanded further down the page and detailed on an
individual record level. These records can be added to a new Target List
by clicking the Add to Target List button. This allows you to create
new, more focussed Campaigns based on who has responded.

image:94Campaign_response.png[94Campaign_response.png,title="94Campaign_response.png"]

[[campaign-roi-tracking]]
Campaign ROI Tracking
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When in the Detail View of a Campaign record you can access the inbuilt
Campaign ROI tracking by clicking the View ROI button.

image:95Campaign_tracking.png[95Campaign_tracking.png,title="95Campaign_tracking.png"]

On clicking this button you will be taken to the ROI page for that
Campaign record. This page gives a graphical representation of your
Campaign Return on Investment, allowing you to easily visualise how your
organisation's money spent on the Campaign has translated into potential
business.

image:Campaign_ROI_Graph.png[Campaign_ROI_Graph.png,title="Campaign_ROI_Graph.png"]

[[cases]]
Cases
~~~~~

In SuiteCRM Cases are used to record interactions with Customers when
they ask for help or advice, for example in a Sales or Support function.
A Case can be created, updated when a User is working on it, assigned to
a colleague and closed when resolved. At each stage of the Case the User
can track and update the incoming and outgoing conversation thread so a
clear record of what has occurred is registered in the CRM. Cases can be
related to individual records such as Accounts, Contacts and Bugs.

[[cases-actions]]
Cases Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Cases actions from the Cases module menu drop down or
via the Sidebar. The Cases actions are as follows:

* Create Case – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to create
a new Account record.
* View Cases – Redirects you to the List View for the Cases module. This
allows you to search and list Case records.
* Import Cases – Redirects you will be taken to the Import Wizard for
the Cases module. For more information, see
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Case, See
link:#Cases_Field_List[Cases Field List].

Advanced functionality for Cases can be found in the
link:#Advanced_Open_Cases_with_Portal[Advanced Cases] section of this
User Guide.

[[managing-cases]]
Managing Cases
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort records on the Cases List View, click any column title which
is sortable. This will sort the column either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Case, see the link:#Search[Search] section of this
user guide.
* To update some or all the Cases on the List View, use the Mass Update
panel as described in the link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass Updating
Records] section of this user guide.
* To duplicate a Case, you can click the Duplicate button on the Detail
View and then save the duplicate record.
* To merge duplicate Cases, select the records from the Cases List View,
click the Merge link in the Actions drop-down list, and progress through
the merge process. For more information on Merging Duplicates, see the
link:#Merging_Records[Merging Records] section of this user guide.
* To delete one or multiple Cases, you can select multiple records from
the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Case from the
Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide on
deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Cases, click the Case Subject in the List
View. This will open the record in Detail View.
* To edit the Case details, click Edit icon within the List View or
click the edit button on the Detail View, make the necessary changes,
and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Cases, see the
link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Case record, you can
click the View Change Log button on the Case's Detail View or Edit View.

[[projects]]
Projects
~~~~~~~~

In SuiteCRM the Projects module allows the User to arrange their
organisation's projects by tracking a number of Tasks and allocating
resources. Once set up, a project can be visualised in the form of a
Gantt chart or using the project grid.

[[projects-actions]]
Projects Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can access the Projects actions from the Projects module menu drop
down or via the Sidebar once you have clicked to view the module. The
Projects actions are as follows:

* Create Project – A new form is opened in Edit View to allow you to
create a new Project record.
* View Project – Redirects you to the List View for the Projects module.
This allows you to search and list Project records.
* View Project Tasks – Allows you to list Project Tasks, which are
related to a parent Project.
* Import Project – Redirects you to the Import Wizard for the Projects
module. For more information, see link:#Importing_Records[Importing
Records].

To view the full list of fields available when creating a Project, See
link:#Projects_Field_List[Projects Field List].

[[creating-projects]]
Creating Projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the Projects module, you can create, manage, and duplicate Projects
and Project Tasks.

You can define multiple Project Tasks for each Project. When you create
a Project Task, you must associate it with a Project. You can associate
a Project with multiple activities, Accounts, Opportunities, and Cases.
You can also create Projects and Project Tasks from an Email’s detail
page.

1.  In the Actions bar, click Create Project.
2.  On the Projects page, enter information for the following fields:
1.  Name. Enter a name for the Project.
2.  Status. From the drop-down list, select the Project status such as
Draft, In Review, or Published.
3.  Start Date. Click the Calendar icon and select the Project start
date.
4.  End Date. Click the Calendar icon and select the Project end date.
5.  Assigned to. Enter the name of you who has ownership of the Project.
By default, it is assigned to you.
6.  Priority. From the drop-down list, select the importance of the
Project such as Low, Medium, or High.
7.  Description. Enter a brief description of the Project.
3.  Click Save to create the Project; click Cancel to exit the page
without creating the Project.

When you save the Project, the Project’s detail page displays on the
page.

From this page, you can relate the Project to records such as Contacts
and Opportunities.

[[creating-project-tasks]]
Creating Project Tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  In the Project Tasks sub-panel, click Create.
2.  On the Project Tasks page, enter information for the following
fields:
1.  Name. Enter a name for the task.
2.  Task ID. Enter a numerical value as the task identification number.
3.  Start Date. Click the Calendar icon and select the date when the
task is due to begin.
4.  Finish Date. Click the Calendar icon and select a date when the task
is due to be completed; enter the start time in the adjoining field.
5.  Percentage Complete. Enter a numerical value to indicate what
percentage of the task has been completed.
6.  Priority. From the drop-down list, select a priority level that
reflects the importance of completing this task.
7.  Milestone. Check this box if the completion on this task is
considered a milestone for project completion.
8.  Project Name. Click Select and choose the project associated with
the task.
9.  Description. Enter a brief description of the task.
3.  Click Save to create the task; click Cancel to return to the project
detail page without creating the task.

[[managing-projects-and-project-tasks]]
Managing Projects and Project Tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* To sort the List View on the Projects and Project Tasks list view,
click any column title which is sortable. This will sort the column
either ascending or descending.
* To search for a Project or Project task, see the link:#Search[Search]
section of this user guide.
* To update some or all the Projects or Project Tasks on the List View,
use the Mass Update panel as described in the
link:#Mass_Updating_Records[Mass Updating Records] section of this user
guide.
* To duplicate a Project, you can click the Duplicate button on the
Detail View and then save the duplicate record.
* To delete one or multiple Projects, you can select multiple records
from the List View and click delete. You can also delete a Project from
the Detail View by clicking the Delete button. For a more detailed guide
on deleting records, see the link:#Deleting_Records[Deleting Records]
section of this user guide.
* To view the details of a Project or Project Task, click the Project or
Project Task Name in the List View. This will open the record in Detail
View.
* To edit the Project or Project Task details, click Edit icon within
the List View or click the edit button on the Detail View, make the
necessary changes, and click Save.
* For a detailed guide on importing and exporting Projects and Project
Tasks, see the link:#Importing_Records[Importing Records] and
link:#Exporting_Records[Exporting Records] sections of this user guide.
* To track all changes to audited fields, in the Project or Project Task
record, you can click the View Change Log button on the Project's or
Project Task's Detail View or Edit View.

[[summary-4]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter we have covered the functionality of the core modules.
These modules allow the user to define and refine sales processes, with
the ability to record data in detail within the required module.

In the next chapter, we will cover the advanced modules within SuiteCRM.
These modules allow the user to manage further sales processes, create
automated workflows, design reports and more.

[[advanced-modules]]
Advanced Modules
----------------

By now, you should have a fundamental understanding of the SuiteCRM user
interface, basic modules, layouts, creating, searching and managing
records.

The next section of this User Guide covers in detail the Advanced CRM
modules. SuiteCRM has Advanced CRM modules which allow Users to further
enhance your Sales Force Automation Capabilities and improve business
processes.

[[advanced-open-sales]]
Advanced Open Sales
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first 'Suite' of advanced modules is AOS(Advanced Open Sales). The
various modules that are part of the AOS suite of modules allow you to
manage the Post-Opportunity Sales processes such as Quoting, Invoicing
and recurring Contracting. This functionality is made available to you
through the following modules:

* Product Categories
* Products
* PDF Templates
* Quotations
* Invoices
* Contracts

[[aos-settings]]
AOS Settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^

System Administrator users can alter the settings for AOS using the AOS
Settings page under the Advanced OpenSales panel within the Admin Panel.

image:172AOS_Settings.png[172AOS_Settings.png,title="172AOS_Settings.png"]

You can customise the following settings within the AOS Settings:

* Renewal Reminder Period – This defines how many days before the
Contract End Date that a reminder call should be created.
* Initial Invoice Number – Allows users to set the initial invoice
number. For example 20001.
* Initial Quote Number – Allows users to set the initial quote number.
For example 456.
* Enable Line Items Groups – If selected then users will be able to
bundle line items into groups. If this is not selected then you will not
be able to use the AOS Group functionality. _Note: This setting should
be selected before using AOS – It is difficult to migrate from/to groups
once Quotes/Invoices have been created._
* Add Tax to Line Total – If this is selected then the Tax will be added
into the Line Total on Line Items. If this is not the selected the Line
Total will not include Tax.

image:173AOS_settings_edit.png[173AOS_settings_edit.png,title="173AOS_settings_edit.png"]

Once configured, click 'Save' to apply your AOS Settings.

[[products-module]]
Products Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create Product records using the Products module. Creating
products allows users to select product lines when preparing Quotes
using AOS. The products module allows users to specify the Products
Name, Part Number, Category and Type. Additional fields for Products can
be added using Studio.

image:174Products_module.png[174Products_module.png,title="174Products_module.png"]

The module also allows users to define a Cost and Price for the product.
Price is the selling price which will be used in the quoting process. A
related Contact can be associated to the product. This is the point of
contact with the supplier concerning this product. If you have an Image
of the product then this can be uploaded within the products record. A
URL to the products page on your website can also be specified.

[[products-categories-module]]
Products Categories Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Product Categories module allows Users to structure Products into a
hierarchical category structure. To create a Product Category record,
navigate to the Product Categories module and click the 'Create Product
Categories' button in the action bar.

image:175Product_category.png[175Product_category.png,title="175Product_category.png"]

The Parent Category field is a relationship field to another Product
Categories record. If you check the 'Is Parent Category' field then this
signifies that the category is the highest level. Once selected you will
not be able to select a Parent Category using the relate field.

[[pdf-templates]]
PDF Templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Creating Templates*

AOS allows users to generate PDF documents and merge data from SuiteCRM
modules. You must however create a PDF template first.

image:176PDF_template.png[176PDF_template.png,title="176PDF_template.png"]

This module provides a WYSIWYG interface to create dynamic PDF
templates. You must select a Type. This is the module you are building
the PDF Template for. By default the modules you can select are: Quotes
Invoices Accounts Contacts Leads

System Administrator users can extend this list by editing the
'pdf_template_type_dom' using the drop down editor functionality. Please
note that the drop down 'Item Name' must be the name of the module
directory.

To insert fields into the Body of the template users will first select a
module. This will be the either the same module as the Type or a related
module to the Type module. This is selected using the first drop down on
the Insert Fields row.

image:177PDF_template_field.png[177PDF_template_field.png,title="177PDF_template_field.png"]

This will populate the second drop down with all the fields found within
that module. Once you have selected the field you wish to insert, the
text field will populate with the field variable name. Click 'Insert' to
place this field into the Body of the template. If the Active check box
is selected then users will be able to generate PDFs from this template.
If it is not selected you will not.

*Loading Samples*

image:178PDF_template_field.png[178PDF_template_field.png,title="178PDF_template_field.png"]

AOS comes with seven pre-defined PDF templates to help you create your
own. These can be loaded by selecting the appropriate template from the
Load Sample drop down list.

image:image86.png[image86.png,title="image86.png"]

*Line Items*

When using a sample to create a template for Quotes or Invoices the Line
Items are formatted within a table. You can change the fields found in
this table as well as add or remove columns. Please note that if you are
creating the template from scratch you must format the Line Items
section as a table.

image:image87.png[image87.png,title="image87.png"]

*Margins*

At the bottom of the PDF Template Edit View, you can specify the margin
width for the PDF output.

image:187PDF_Margins.png[187PDF_Margins.png,title="187PDF_Margins.png"]

*Header and Footer*

Within the PDF Templates Edit View, you can also define a Header and a
Footer for your templates. These can be completed using the Header and
Footer text areas found below the Body text area.

image:188PDF_footer.png[188PDF_footer.png,title="188PDF_footer.png"]

*Generate Letter*

You can generate PDF documents for Accounts, Contacts and Leads using
the Generate Letter functionality.

image:image90.png[image90.png,title="image90.png"]

Clicking the 'Generate Letter' button found on these modules Detail View
will prompt a pop-up asking to select a template.

image:image91.png[image91.png,title="image91.png"]

The template selector pop-up will show all the active templates which
have the same Type as the module of the record. Clicking the template
name will generate a PDF document with date populated from the record
and it's related records. The Generate Letter functionality can also be
actioned from the List View. This allows you to select multiple records
and click the 'Generate Letter' button within the List View action menu.

image:image92.png[image92.png,title="image92.png"]

The process for generating PDFs for Quotes, Invoices and Contracts is
described in your respective sections.

[[quotes-module]]
Quotes Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Creating a Quote*

You can create a Quote by going to the Quotes module and clicking
'Create Quote' from within the actions bar. The first panel allows you
to specify details concerning the quote such as the Title, related
Opportunity, Stage and Payment Terms. The Quote Number field is
calculated automatically.

image:96Quotes_first_panel.png[96Quotes_first_panel.png,title="96Quotes_first_panel.png"]

The second panel allows you to specify who the Quote is for by relating
an Account and Contact to the Quote. When you select the Account, the
Billing Address and Shipping Address are dynamically pulled from the
Account and populated into the fields on the Quote record.

image:97Quotes_2nd_panel.png[97Quotes_2nd_panel.png,title="97Quotes_2nd_panel.png"]

*Line Items with Groups*

The third panel allows users to specify the Quote Groups, Line Items and
the Currency. A Group is a collection of Line Items with its own Group
Total. A Line Item can be a Product Line or a Service Line. To add a
Quote Group, click the 'Add Group' button.

_Note: Add Group will be displayed if “Enable Line Item groups” is
selected in Admin._

image:98Quotes_add_group.png[98Quotes_add_group.png,title="98Quotes_add_group.png"]

This will display the Group, allowing you to insert a Group Name and add
a Product Line or Service Line. It will also display the Group Totals.

image:200Add_group.png[200Add_group.png,title="200Add_group.png"]

To add a Product Line, click the 'Add Product Line' button. This will
allow users to quote for Products from the Products module.

image:201Add_product_line.png[201Add_product_line.png,title="201Add_product_line.png"]

To select a Product, you can start typing in the Product or Part Number
field which will provide a list of results similar to any relate field.
Alternatively click the arrow button next to the Part Number field. This
will display a pop-up window allowing you to select from a list of
Products.

image:202Add_product1.png[202Add_product1.png,title="202Add_product1.png"]

Once you have selected a Product, the List, Sale Price and Total will
populate automatically. You can change the Quality, add Discounts
(Percentage or Amount) and increase the Tax percentage. These will alter
the Sale Price, Total Price and Group Total fields. To add a Service
Line, click the 'Add Service Line' button. This will allow users to
quote for Services.

image:203Add_service_line.png[203Add_service_line.png,title="203Add_service_line.png"]

For Service Lines, you must specify the List price. This will populate
the Sale Price. Tax and Discounts can be added similarly to the Product
Line. AOS will keep a Grand Total for each Group.

image:204Total.png[204Total.png,title="204Total.png"]

AOS will also keep a Grand Total for all Groups combined.

image:205Total_total.png[205Total_total.png,title="205Total_total.png"]

The Shipping field allows you to add a shipping cost. The Shipping Tax
field allows you to add tax to this value. Once the Quote has been
compiled, click 'Save' to save the Quote.

Line Items without Groups

Creating Quotes without Groups is very similar to creating Quotes with
Groups. The only difference is you do not have to click 'Add Group'. You
simply 'Add Product Line' and 'Add Service Line' to the quote. Without
Groups you are cannot see the Group Total fields. You will only see the
Grand Total fields.

*Sending Quotations*

To output a Quote you can select one of following three buttons from the
Quote Detail View.

image:99Sending_quotations.png[99Sending_quotations.png,title="99Sending_quotations.png"]

AOS provides users with three methods of sending Quotes:

* Print as PDF – Allows you to select a template and download or save a
PDF of the Quote.
* Email PDF – Allows you to select a template then directs you to the
SuiteCRM email client 'Compose' screen. The Quote PDF will be attached
to email and the email will be addressed to the related Contact of the
Quote. This allows you to fill out the email body.
* Email Quotation – This directs you to the SuiteCRM email client
'Compose' screen. The email will be addressed to the related Contact of
the Quote. There will be no attachment and the Quote will be displayed
within the body of the email.

*Convert To Invoice*

With AOS you can convert Quotes to Invoices. This can be achieved by
clicking the 'Convert to Invoice' button on the Quote Detail View.

image:100Conver_to_invoice.png[100Conver_to_invoice.png,title="100Conver_to_invoice.png"]

This functionality will redirect users to the Edit View of an Invoice
record. Fields will be populated based on your Quote counterparts and
Line Items will be copied over. When you are ready to create the
Invoice, click the 'Save' button. Converting a Quote to an Invoice will
set the Invoice Status of the quote to 'Invoiced'.

*Create Contract*

As well as converting to an Invoice, AOS allows users to create a
Contract based on a Quote. This can be done by clicking the 'Create
Contract' button on the Quote Detail View.

image:101Create_contract.png[101Create_contract.png,title="101Create_contract.png"]

This will redirect you to the Edit View of a Contract record, pulling
through any appropriate fields from the Quote. This includes any Line
Items on the Quote.

[[invoices-module]]
Invoices Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Creating an Invoice*

Creating an Invoice record is very similar to creating a Quote record.
You can create an Invoice by going to the Invoices module and clicking
'Create Invoice' from within the actions bar. The first panel allows you
to specify details about the Invoice such as Status and Due Date.

image:102Invoice_panel_1.png[102Invoice_panel_1.png,title="102Invoice_panel_1.png"]

The second panel allows you to specify who the Invoice is for by
relating an Account and Contact to the Invoice. When you select the
Account, the Billing Address and Shipping Address are dynamically pulled
from the Account and populated into the fields on the Invoice record.

image:103Invoice_panel_2.png[103Invoice_panel_2.png,title="103Invoice_panel_2.png"]

*Groups and Line Items*

AOS allows users to add Groups and Line Items to Invoices. This is
completed in the exact same way as Quotes. Please refer to Quotes
section for details on how to create Groups and Line Items.

Sending Invoices

To output an Invoice you can select one of following three buttons from
the Invoice Detail View.

image:104Invoice_export.png[104Invoice_export.png,title="104Invoice_export.png"]

AOS provides users with three methods of sending Invoices:

* Print as PDF – Allows users to select a template and download or save
a PDF of the Invoice.
* Email PDF – Allows users to select a template then directs you to the
SuiteCRM email client 'Compose' screen. The Invoice PDF will be attached
to email and the email will be addressed to the related Contact of the
Invoice. This allows user to fill out the email body.
* Email Invoice – This directs you to the SuiteCRM email client
'Compose' screen. The email will be addressed to the related Contact of
the Invoice. There will be no attachment and the Invoice will be
displayed within the body of the email.

[[contracts-module]]
Contracts Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Creating a Contract*

AOS allows users to create Contracts using the Contracts module.

image:105Creating_a_contract.png[105Creating_a_contract.png,title="105Creating_a_contract.png"]

When the Contract is created the Renewal Reminder Date will populate
automatically based on the amount of days specified in the AOS Settings
in Admin. A Call will be scheduled and assigned to the Contract Manger
for this date.

*Groups and Line Items*

AOS allows users to add Groups and Line Items for Contracts. This is
completed in the exact same way as Quotes. Please refer to Quotes
section for details on how to create Groups and Line Items.

[[advanced-open-workflow]]
Advanced Open Workflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Advanced OpenWorkflow (AOW) is a module for SuiteCRM, allowing users to
create custom workflow processes. This module allows users to trigger
various system actions based on conditions from any SuiteCRM module.

[[creating-a-workflow-process]]
Creating a Workflow Process
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create workflow processes by navigating to the 'WorkFlow' module
within SuiteCRM. Click the 'Create WorkFlow' button within the action
bar to start creating the process. The first panel allows users to set
up the workflow process.

image:106Creating_a_workflow.png[106Creating_a_workflow.png,title="106Creating_a_workflow.png"]

This allows you to specify the following:

* Name – The name of the process.
* Assigned To - The assigned user of the workflow process.
* WorkFlow Module – A drop down list of all the modules found within the
SuiteCRM instance. This is the module the workflow is run against. For
example, When an Account is created/edited.
* Status – Active or Inactive. Only active processes will run.
* Run – Always, On Save or On Scheduler.
* Run On – All Records, Modified Records or New Records.
* Repeated Runs – If checked, the process will continue to run over and
over. Ideally this should only be checked if one of the specified
Actions negates (or will lead to the negation) of one of the specified
Conditions.
* Description – A description of the process.

[[conditions]]
Conditions
^^^^^^^^^^

Adding Conditions

Once set up, you can add conditions to a workflow process using the
conditions panel. This allows users to specify the criteria that should
trigger the workflow actions.

image:107Adding_conditions.png[107Adding_conditions.png,title="107Adding_conditions.png"]

To add a Condition Line you must click the 'Add Condition' button.

_Note: You must select your WorkFlow Module on the first panel before
adding a Condition Line._

image:206Add_condition.png[206Add_condition.png,title="206Add_condition.png"]

You can have an unlimited amount of Condition Lines. To add another line
click the 'Add Condition' button again and it will appear. On the line
you will have four fields; Field, Operator, Type and Value.

*Field and Operator*

Field is a drop down which automatically populates with all the fields
found in the WorkFlow Module.

image:109Field_box.png[109Field_box.png,title="109Field_box.png"]

The Field selected will determine the options available for Operator and
Type. If the field type is not a number or date then the operators
available will be 'Equal To' or 'Not Equal To'. For number and date
fields you can also choose from additional logical operators; 'Less
Than', 'Greater Than', 'Less Than or Equal To' or 'Greater Than or Equal
To'.

image:110Operator_box.png[110Operator_box.png,title="110Operator_box.png"]

*Condition Types*

You can specify workflow processes to trigger on different condition
types. These are as follows:

Value – This is used to directly compare the Field to a value. The value
type offered is dynamic to the field type of the Field selected. For
example, if the field type is a drop down then the value field type will
be the same drop down list.

image:111Value_condition.png[111Value_condition.png,title="111Value_condition.png"]

Field – This is used to action a workflow process when one field is
compared to another field in the record.

image:112Field_condition.png[112Field_condition.png,title="112Field_condition.png"]

Multiple – This can be selected if the Field is a drop down/multiselect.
This allows users to specify multiple values to action the workflow
from.

image:113Multiple_condition.png[113Multiple_condition.png,title="113Multiple_condition.png"]

Date – This allows you to specify the workflow to occur after/before an
amount of time from either another date field or 'Now'. For example,
when the start date of a call is 'Now + 10 minutes'. This can only be
used when the Field is a date field. The amount of time before or after
the date can be specified in Minutes, Hours, Days, Weeks or Months.

image:114Date_condition.png[114Date_condition.png,title="114Date_condition.png"]

*Removing Conditions*

You can remove Condition Lines by clicking the '-' button on the left
hand side of the condition.

image:115Removing_conditions.png[115Removing_conditions.png,title="115Removing_conditions.png"]

[[actions]]
Actions
^^^^^^^

*Adding Actions*

Actions are defined in the third panel. These specify what events should
occur when the conditions have been met. You can add an Action by
clicking the 'Add Action' button.

image:116Adding_actions.png[116Adding_actions.png,title="116Adding_actions.png"]

This will cause the Action Line to appear.

image:207Action_line.png[207Action_line.png,title="207Action_line.png"]

From the Action Line you can Select Action and give it a Name. The
actions available are; 'Create Record', 'Modify Record' and 'Send
Email'. You can specify an unlimited amount of actions for each workflow
process.

*Create Record*

If you select 'Create Record' you will be prompted to select a Record
Type. This is the module type of the record you are looking to create.

image:208Create_record.png[208Create_record.png,title="208Create_record.png"]

Once selected you can add fields or relationships to this record using
the 'Add Field' and 'Add Relationship' buttons.

image:209Add_field-relationship1.png[209Add_field-relationship1.png,title="209Add_field-relationship1.png"]

When Adding fields the first drop down in the line will populate with
all the fields from that module. The second drop down allows you to
specify how the value for that field is going to be derived. For most
cases the options are as follows:

* Value – This will allow you to input the value directly using the same
field type as the field selected.
* Field – This will make the field the same value as a field found in
the WorkFlow Module.
* Date – Only selectable if the field is a date field. This will allow
you to specify the value as an amount of time after/before another date
field or 'Now'.

image:210Adding_fields.png[210Adding_fields.png,title="210Adding_fields.png"]

Selecting the 'Assigned-To' field also gives you more options. As well
as by value and field you can assign a user by:

Round Robin – This will select each user in turn.

Least Busy – This will select you with the least amount of records
assigned to you for that module.

Random – This will select a random user.

For each of the above options you can choose if you want you to be
selected from all users or users from a specific role. If you have the
SecuritySuite module installed you can additionally choose if you want
you to be selected from all users from a particular Security Group or
all users from a particular security group with a particular role.

image:121Assigned_field.png[121Assigned_field.png,title="121Assigned_field.png"]

When adding relationships you must select the related module from the
drop down list then select the record that the new record should be
related to.

image:212Add_relationship.png[212Add_relationship.png,title="212Add_relationship.png"]

_Note: You must selected the related module using the arrow button – The
auto completion on the text field is not currently developed._

*Modify Record*

This provides the same functionality as 'Create Record' but instead of
creating a new record you are modifying the record which met the
conditions of the workflow process. With this action you can modify any
field found within the record or you can add a relationship to another
record. This is completed in the same way as 'Create Record' except you
are not required to specify the Record Type.

*Send Email*

The 'Send Email' action allows users to create workflow processes which
will send an email based on an template to individuals. Using this
action there are four different types of recipient.

Email – This will send an email to a specific email address. You must
specify the email address and the email template.

image:213Send_email_to.png[213Send_email_to.png,title="213Send_email_to.png"]

Record Email – This will send an email to the primary email address
specified on the record which actioned the workflow process. This can
only be used if the record has an email field such as Accounts and
Contacts. For this option you only need to specify the template.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image127.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image127.png]</span>

User – This will send the email to a specified Users email address. You
must specify the recipient user and the template of the email.

image:214Send_email_to_user.png[214Send_email_to_user.png,title="214Send_email_to_user.png"]

Related Field – This will send an email to the primary email address
specified on a related modules record. In this case you must specify the
related module (From a drop down list) and the email template.

image:215Email_related_field.png[215Email_related_field.png,title="215Email_related_field.png"]

[[calculate-fields]]
Calculate Fields
++++++++++++++++

If you select 'Calculate Fields' from the Action dropdown the Calculate
Fields user interface will be loaded after a second and looks like the
picture below.

image:216Calculate_fields.png[216Calculate_fields.png,title="216Calculate_fields.png"]

*Calculate Fields - Adding parameters*

It is possible to add parameters to the formulas by using the dropdown
in the Parameters section of the Calculate Fields’s user interface. The
dropdown contains all of the (basic and custom) fields which belongs to
the module selected in the basic fields section.

To add a parameter, select the field from the dropdown and click on the
Add parameter button. After this action, a new line appears in the
parameter table with the name of the field and the given identifier.

For some fields (dropdowns and multi-selects) an additional dropdown
shown up where the user can select if the raw or the formatted value
should be used in Calculated Fields. The raw format means the value
which is stored in the database and the formatted value means the label
for that database value.

To remove a parameter from the table, simply click on the minus button
in the row of the parameter. Be aware, that if you remove a parameter,
all of the identifiers are recalculated, so the identifiers could change
for fields!

image:217Add_parameter.png[217Add_parameter.png,title="217Add_parameter.png"]

The identifier is used to reference this field when the user creates the
formula. For example all appearances of the \{P0} identifier will be
replaced with the Account’s name in the formula. All parameters are like
\{Px} where x is the sequential order of the parameter. The amount of
the parameters is not limited.

*Calculate Fields - Adding relation parameters*

Relation parameters are very similar to the regular parameters, the only
difference is that the user first selects an entity which is in a
one-to-one or one-to-many relationship with the actual entity.

To add a relation parameter, select the relation first, and then select
the field from the connected entity and push the Add relation parameter
button. After this action, a new line appears in the relation parameter
table with the name of the relationship, the name of the field and the
given identifier.

As for parameters for some relation parameter fields (dropdowns and
multi-selects) an additional dropdown shown up where the user can select
if the raw or the formatted value should be used in Calculate Fields.

To remove a relation parameter from the table, simply click on the minus
button in the row of the relation parameter. Be aware, that if you
remove a relation parameter, all of the identifiers are recalculated, so
the identifiers could change for fields!

image:128Adding_relation_parameter.png[128Adding_relation_parameter.png,title="128Adding_relation_parameter.png"]

The identifier is used to reference this field when the user creates the
formula. For example all appearances of the \{R0} identifier will be
replaced with the creator user‘s username in the formula. All relation
parameters are like \{Rx} where x is the sequential order of the
relation parameter. The amount of the relation parameters is not
limited.

*Calculate Fields - Creating formula for a field*

In the Formulas part of the user interface the user can add formulas for
fields of the actual entity.

To add a formula, select a field from the dropdown first and then push
the Add formula button. After this action, a new line appears in the
formula table with the name of the field and with the place for the
formula.

To remove a formula from the table, simply click on the minus button in
the row of the formula.

image:129Add_formula.png[129Add_formula.png,title="129Add_formula.png"]

The formula is a textbox where the user can write the formulas. The
module evaluates the formula on the given time (on save, on scheduler
run or both) and fills the selected field with the evaluated value.

The formula can contain any text (with full UTF-8 support), but only the
function parts (functions with parameters between ‘\{‘ and ‘}’) are
evaluated. For example and with the parameters added in the previous
sections, if we fill the formula like: Account \{P0} created by user
name \{R0}, then the description field will have the following value
after save: Account My Account created by user name MyUser (implying the
account’s name is My Account and the creator user’s username is MyUser).

The Calculate Fields has many built-in functions which allows the user
to build complex formulas to achieve various goals. These functions are
described in the next section.

*Calculate Fields - Usable functions*

As it is mentioned above, all of the functions are wrapped between ‘\{‘
and ‘}’ signs, and they look like \{functionName(parameter1; parameter2;
…)}. The count of the parameters are different for the different
functions. The module evaluates the functions and changes them with
their result in the formula.

The functions can be embedded into each other (using a result of a
function as a parameter for another function) like in this example:

<pre style="white-space: pre; white-space: -moz-pre; white-space: -pre;
white-space: -o-pre;"> \{power(\{subtract(\{divide(\{add(\{multiply(10;
2)}; 12)}; 8)}; 1)}; 2)} </pre>

This function is the formalised look of the following mathematical
expression:

<pre style="white-space: pre; white-space: -moz-pre; white-space: -pre;
white-space: -o-pre;"> ((((10 * 2) + 12) / 8) – 1)2 </pre>

The functions are divided to six groups. These groups are described in
the next section of the document.

[[logical-functions]]
Logical Functions

Logical functions are returning true or false in the form of 1 and 0 so
checkboxes typed fields can be filled with these functions. They can be
also used as the logical condition for the ifThenElse function.

*equal*

[cols=",",]
|================================================================
|Signature |\{equal(parameter1;parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type
|parameter2: can be any value of any type
|Description |Determines if *parameter1* equals with *parameter2*
|Returns |1 if the two parameters are equal or 0 if not
|Example call |\{equal(1; 2)} returns 0
|================================================================

*notEqual*

[cols=",",]
|====================================================================
|Signature |\{notEqual(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type
|parameter2: can be any value of any type
|Description |Determines if *parameter1* not equals with *parameter2*
|Returns |0 if the two parameters are equal or 1 if not
|Example call |\{notEqual(1; 2)} returns 1
|====================================================================

*greaterThan*

[cols=",",]
|=================================================================
|Signature |\{greaterThan(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type
|parameter2: can be any value of any type
|Description |Determines if *parameter1* greater than *parameter2*
|Returns |1 if *parameter1* greater than *parameter2*, 0 if not
|Example call |\{greaterThan(3; 3)} returns 0
|=================================================================

*greaterThanOrEqual*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{greaterThanOrEqual(parameter1; parameter2)}

|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type

|parameter2: can be any value of any type

|Description |Determines if *parameter1* greater than or equal
*parameter2*

|Returns |1 if *parameter1* greater than or equal *parameter2*, 0 if not

|Example call |\{greaterThanOrEqual(3; 3)} returns 1
|=======================================================================

*lessThan*

[cols=",",]
|==============================================================
|Signature |\{lessThan(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type
|parameter2: can be any value of any type
|Description |Determines if *parameter1* less than *parameter2*
|Returns |1 if *parameter1* less than *parameter2*, 0 if not
|Example call |\{lessThan(3; 3)} returns 0
|==============================================================

*lessThanOrEqual*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{lessThanOrEqual(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: can be any value of any type
|parameter2: can be any value of any type
|Description |Determines if *parameter1* less than or equal *parameter2*
|Returns |1 if *parameter1* less than or equal *parameter2*, 0 if not
|Example call |\{lessThanOrEqual(3; 3)} returns 1
|=======================================================================

*empty*

[cols=",",]
|===============================================
|Signature |\{empty(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: text value
|Description |Determines if *parameter* is empty
|Returns |1 if *parameter* is empty, 0 if not
|Example call |\{empty(any text)} returns 0
|===============================================

*notEmpty*

[cols=",",]
|===================================================
|Signature |\{notEmpty(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: text value
|Description |Determines if *parameter* is not empty
|Returns |1 if *parameter* is not empty, 0 if empty
|Example call |\{notEmpty(any text)} returns 1
|===================================================

*not*

[cols=",",]
|=========================================================
|Signature |\{not(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: logical value
|Description |Negates the logical value of the *parameter*
|Returns |1 if *parameter* is 0, 0 if *parameter* is 1
|Example call |\{not(0)} returns 1
|=========================================================

*and*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{and(parameter1; parameter2)}

|Parameters |parameter1: logical value

|parameter2: logical value

|Description |Applies the AND logical operator to two logical values

|Returns |1 if *parameter1* and *parameter2* is 1, 0 if any parameters
are 0

|Example call |\{and(1; 0)} returns 0
|=======================================================================

*or*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{or(parameter1; parameter2)}

|Parameters |parameter1: logical value

|parameter2: logical value

|Description |Applies the OR logical operator to two logical values

|Returns |1 if *parameter1* or *parameter2* is 1, 0 if both parameters
are 0

|Example call |\{or(1; 0)} returns 1
|=======================================================================

[[text-functions]]
Text Functions

Text functions are used to manipulate text in various ways. All the
functions listed here are fully supports UTF-8 texts, so special
characters should not raise any problems.

*substring*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{substring(text; start; length)}

|Parameters |text: text value

|start: decimal value

|length [optional parameter]: decimal value

|Description |Cuts the substring of a text field from *start*. If the
*length* optional parameter is not set, then it cuts all characters
until the end of the string, otherwise cuts the provided *length*.
Indexing of a text’s characters starting from 0.

|Returns |Substring of the given text

|Example call |\{substring(This is my text; 5)} returns is my text

|\{substring(This is my text; 5; 5)} returns is my
|=======================================================================

*length*

[cols=",",]
|===============================================
|Signature |\{length(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: text value
|Description |Count the characters in a text.
|Returns |The count of the characters in a text.
|Example call |\{length(sample text)} returns 11
|===============================================

*replace*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{replace(search; replace; subject)}

|Parameters |search: text value

|replace: text value

|subject: text value

|Description |Replace all occurrences of *search* to *replace* in the
text *subject*.

|Returns |*subject* with replaced values.

|Example call |\{replace(apple; orange; This is an apple tree)} returns
This is an orange tree
|=======================================================================

*position*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{position(subject; search)}

|Parameters |subject: text value

| |search: text value

|Description |Find position of first occurrence of *search* in a
*subject*

|Returns |Numeric position of *search* in *subject* or -1 if *search*
not present in *subject*

|Example call |\{position(Where is my text?; text)} returns 12
|=======================================================================

*lowercase*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{lowercase(parameter)}

|Parameters |parameter: text value

|Description |Make text lowercase

|Returns |The lowercased text.

|Example call |\{lowercase(ThIs iS a sAmPlE tExT)} returns this is a
sample text
|=======================================================================

*uppercase*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{uppercase(parameter)}

|Parameters |parameter: text value

|Description |Make text uppercase

|Returns |The uppercased text.

|Example call |\{uppercase(ThIs iS a sAmPlE tExT)} returns THIS IS A
SAMPLE TEXT
|=======================================================================

[[mathematical-functions]]
Mathematical functions

Mathematical functions are used to manipulate numbers in various ways.
Several mathematical operators are implemented as functions in Calculate
Fields.

*add*

[cols=",",]
|=================================================
|Signature |\{add(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: number value
|parameter2: number value
|Description |Adds *parameter1* and *parameter2*
|Returns |The sum of *parameter1* and *parameter2*
|Example call |\{add(3.12; 4.83)} returns 7.95
|=================================================

*subtract*

[cols=",",]
|=========================================================
|Signature |\{subtract(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: number value
|parameter2: number value
|Description |Subtracts *parameter2* from *parameter1*
|Returns |The distinction of *parameter2* and *parameter1*
|Example call |\{subtract(8; 3)} returns 5
|=========================================================

*multiply*

[cols=",",]
|=====================================================
|Signature |\{multiply(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: number value
|parameter2: number value
|Description |Multiplies *parameter1* and *parameter2*
|Returns |The product of *parameter1* and *parameter2*
|Example call |\{multiply(2; 4)} returns 8
|=====================================================

*divide*

[cols=",",]
|======================================================
|Signature |\{divide(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: number value
|parameter2: number value
|Description |Divides *parameter2* with *parameter1*
|Returns |The division of *parameter2* and *parameter1*
|Example call |\{divide(8; 2)} returns 4
|======================================================

*power*

[cols=",",]
|=============================================================
|Signature |\{power(parameter1; parameter2)}
|Parameters |parameter1: number value
|parameter2: number value
|Description |Raises *parameter1* to the power of *parameter2*
|Returns |*parameter1* raised to the power of *parameter2*
|Example call |\{power(2; 7)} returns 128
|=============================================================

*squareRoot*

[cols=",",]
|======================================================
|Signature |\{squareRoot(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: number value
|Description |Calculates the square root of *parameter*
|Returns |The square root of *parameter*
|Example call |\{squareRoot(4)} returns 2
|======================================================

*absolute*

[cols=",",]
|=========================================================
|Signature |\{absolute(parameter)}
|Parameters |parameter: number value
|Description |Calculates the absolute value of *parameter*
|Returns |The absolute value of *parameter*
|Example call |\{absolute(-4)} returns 4
|=========================================================

[[date-functions]]
Date functions

There are several date functions implemented in Calculate Fields, so the
user can manipulate dates in many ways. Most of the functions uses a
format parameter, which is used to set the result of the functions
formatted as the user wants to. The options for these formats are
equivalent with the PHP format parameters:

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Format character |Description |Example returned values
|*For day*

|style="text-align: center;" | d |Day of the month, 2 digits with
leading zeros |01 to 31

|style="text-align: center;" | D |A textual representation of a day,
three letters |Mon through Sun

|style="text-align: center;" | j |Day of the month without leading zeros
|1 to 31

|style="text-align: center;" | l |A full textual representation of the
day of the week |Sunday through Saturday

|style="text-align: center;" | N |ISO-8601 numeric representation of the
day of the week |1 (for Monday) through 7 (for Sunday)

|style="text-align: center;" | S |English ordinal suffix for the day of
the month, 2 characters |st, nd, rd or th. Works well with j

|style="text-align: center;" | w |Numeric representation of the day of
the week |0 (for Sunday) through 6 (for Saturday)

|style="text-align: center;" | z |The day of the year (starting from 0)
|0 through 365

|*For week*

|style="text-align: center;" | W |ISO-8601 week number of year, weeks
starting on Monday |42 (the 42nd week in the year)

|*For month*

|style="text-align: center;" | F |A full textual representation of a
month, such as January or March |January through December

|style="text-align: center;" | m |Numeric representation of a month,
with leading zeros |01 through 12

|style="text-align: center;" | M |A short textual representation of a
month, three letters |Jan through Dec

|style="text-align: center;" | n |Numeric representation of a month,
without leading zeros |1 through 12

|style="text-align: center;" | t |Number of days in the given month |28
through 31

|*For year*

|style="text-align: center;" | L |Whether it's a leap year |1 if it is a
leap year, 0 otherwise

|style="text-align: center;" | o |ISO-8601 year number. This has the
same value as Y, except that if the ISO week number (W) belongs to the
previous or next year, that year is used instead |1999 or 2003

|style="text-align: center;" | Y |A full numeric representation of a
year, 4 digits |1999 or 2003

|style="text-align: center;" | y |A two digit representation of a year
|99 or 03

|*For time*

|style="text-align: center;" | a |Lowercase Ante meridiem and Post
meridiem |am or pm

|style="text-align: center;" | A |Uppercase Ante meridiem and Post
meridiem |AM or PM

|style="text-align: center;" | B |Swatch Internet time |000 through 999

|style="text-align: center;" | g |12-hour format of an hour without
leading zeros |1 through 12

|style="text-align: center;" | G |24-hour format of an hour without
leading zeros |0 through 23

|style="text-align: center;" | h |12-hour format of an hour with leading
zeros |01 through 12

|style="text-align: center;" | H |24-hour format of an hour with leading
zeros |00 through 23

|style="text-align: center;" | i |Minutes with leading zeros |00 to 59

|style="text-align: center;" | s |Seconds, with leading zeros |00
through 59

|*For timezone*

|style="text-align: center;" | e |Timezone identifier |UTC, GMT,
Atlantic/Azores

|style="text-align: center;" | l |Whether or not the date is in daylight
saving time |1 if Daylight Saving Time, 0 otherwise

|style="text-align: center;" | O |Difference to Greenwich time (GMT) in
hours |+0200

|style="text-align: center;" | P |Difference to Greenwich time (GMT)
with colon between hours and minutes |+02:00

|style="text-align: center;" | T |Timezone abbreviation |EST, MDT

|style="text-align: center;" | Z |Timezone offset in seconds. The offset
for timezones west of UTC is always negative, and for those east of UTC
is always positive. |-43200 through 50400

|*For full date/time*

|style="text-align: center;" | c |ISO 8601 date
|2004-02-12T15:19:21+00:00

|style="text-align: center;" | r |RFC 2822 formatted date |Thu, 21 Dec
2000 16:01:07 +0200

|style="text-align: center;" | U |Seconds since the Unix Epoch (January
1 1970 00:00:00 GMT) |
|=======================================================================

For all functions without timestamp parameter, we assume that the
current date/time is 2016.04.29. 15:08:03

*date*

[cols=",",]
|=====================================================
|Signature |\{date(format; timestamp)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|Description |Creates a date in the given format
|Returns |*timestamp* in the given *format*
|Example call |\{date(ymd; 2016-02-11)} returns 160211
|=====================================================

*now*

[cols=",",]
|=============================================================
|Signature |\{now(format)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|Description |Creates the actual date/time in the given format
|Returns |Current date/time in the given *format*
|Example call |\{now(Y-m-d H:i:s)} returns 2016-04-29 15:08:03
|=============================================================

*yesterday*

[cols=",",]
|===================================================================
|Signature |\{yesterday(format)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|Description |Creates yesterday’s date/time in the given format
|Returns |Yesterday’s date/time in the given *format*
|Example call |\{yesterday(Y-m-d H:i:s)} returns 2016-04-28 15:08:03
|===================================================================

*tomorrow*

[cols=",",]
|==================================================================
|Signature |\{tomorrow(format)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|Description |Creates tomorrow’s date/time in the given format
|Returns |Tomorrow’s date/time in the given *format*
|Example call |\{tomorrow(Y-m-d H:i:s)} returns 2016-04-30 15:08:03
|==================================================================

*datediff*

[cols=",",]
|==================================================================
|Signature |\{datediff(timestamp1; timestamp2; unit)}
|Parameters |timestamp1: date/time value
|timestamp2: date/time value
|unit: years/months/days/hours/minutes/seconds; default: days
|Description |Subtracts *timestamp2* from *timestamp1*
|Returns |The difference between the two dates returned in *unit*
|Example call |\{datediff(2016-02-01; 2016-04-22; days)} returns 81
|==================================================================

*addYears*

[cols=",",]
|==============================================================
|Signature |\{addYears(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Adds *amount* years to *timestamp*
|Returns |Incremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{addYears(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 1)} returns 20170422
|==============================================================

*addMonths*

[cols=",",]
|===============================================================
|Signature |\{addMonths(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Adds *amount* months to *timestamp*
|Returns |Incremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{addMonths(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 1)} returns 20160522
|===============================================================

*addDays*

[cols=",",]
|=============================================================
|Signature |\{addDays(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Adds *amount* days to *timestamp*
|Returns |Incremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{addDays(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 1)} returns 20160423
|=============================================================

*addHours*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{addHours(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Adds *amount* hours to *timestamp*

|Returns |Incremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{addHours(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 23:30; 5)} returns
20160423 04:30:00
|=======================================================================

*addMinutes*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{addMinutes(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Adds *amount* minutes to *timestamp*

|Returns |Incremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{addMinutes(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 22:58; 5)} returns
20160422 23:03:00
|=======================================================================

*addSeconds*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{addSeconds(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Adds *amount* seconds to *timestamp*

|Returns |Incremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{addSeconds(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 22:58; 5)} returns
20160422 22:58:05
|=======================================================================

*subtractYears*

[cols=",",]
|===================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractYears(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Subtracts *amount* years from *timestamp*
|Returns |Decremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{subtractYears(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 5)} returns 20110422
|===================================================================

*subtractMonths*

[cols=",",]
|====================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractMonths(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Subtracts *amount* months from *timestamp*
|Returns |Decremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{subtractMonths(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 5)} returns 20151122
|====================================================================

*subtractDays*

[cols=",",]
|==================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractDays(format; timestamp; amount)}
|Parameters |format: format text
|timestamp: date/time value
|amount: decimal number
|Description |Subtracts *amount* days from *timestamp*
|Returns |Decremented date in *format*
|Example call |\{subtractDays(Ymd; 2016-04-22; 5)} returns 20160417
|==================================================================

*subtractHours*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractHours(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Subtracts *mount* hours from *timestamp*

|Returns |Decremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{subtractHours(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 12:37; 5)} returns
20160422 07:37:00
|=======================================================================

*subtractMinutes*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractMinutes(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Subtracts *amount* minutes from *timestamp*

|Returns |Decremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{subtractMinutes(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 12:37; 5)}
returns 20160422 12:32:00
|=======================================================================

*subtractSeconds*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{subtractSeconds(format; timestamp; amount)}

|Parameters |format: format text

|timestamp: date/time value

|amount: decimal number

|Description |Subtracts *amount* minutes from *timestamp*

|Returns |Decremented date in *format*

|Example call |\{subtractSeconds(Ymd H:i:s; 2016-04-22 12:37; 5)}
returns 20160422 12:36:55
|=======================================================================

[[control-functions]]
Control Functions

There is only one control function implemented in Calculate Fields so
far, but this function ensures that the user can write very complex
formulas with conditions. Since the functions can be embedded in each
other, the user can write junctions with many branches.

*ifThenElse*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{ifThenElse(condition; trueBranch; falseBranch)}

|Parameters |condition: logical value

|trueBranch: any expression

|falseBranch: any expression

|Description |Selects one of the two branches depending on *condition*

|Returns |*trueBranch* if *condition* is true, *falseBranch* otherwise

|Example call |\{ifThenElse(\{equal(1; 1)}; 1 equals 1; 1 not equals 1)}
returns 1 equals 1
|=======================================================================

[[counters]]
Counters

There are several counters implemented in Calculate Fields which can be
used in various scenarios.

The counters sorted into two groups:

1.  *Global counters:* Counters which are incremented every time an
affected formula is evaluated
2.  *Daily counters:* Counters which resets every day. (Starting from 1)

In this chapter we assume that the counters current value is 4, so the
incremented value will be 5 with the given format.

*GlobalCounter*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{GlobalCounter(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* with length
*numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{GlobalCounter(myName; 4)} returns 0005
|=======================================================================

*GlobalCounterPerUser*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{GlobalCounterPerUser(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the user
who creates the entity with length *numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{GlobalCounterPerUser(myName; 3)} returns 005
|=======================================================================

*GlobalCounterPerModule*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{GlobalCounterPerModule(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the
module of the entity with length *numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{GlobalCounterPerModule(myName; 2)} returns 05
|=======================================================================

*GlobalCounterPerUserPerModule*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{GlobalCounterPerUserPerModule(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the user
who creates the entity and for the module of the entity with length
*numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{GlobalCounterPerUserPerModule(myName; 1)} returns 5
|=======================================================================

*DailyCounter*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{DailyCounter(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* with length
*numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*, or if the counter is not
incremented this day then 1 with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{DailyCounter(myName; 1)} returns 5
|=======================================================================

*DailyCounterPerUser*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{DailyCounterPerUser(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the user
who creates the entity with length *numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*, or if the counter is not
incremented this day for this user then 1 with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{DailyCounter(myName; 1)} returns 5
|=======================================================================

*DailyCounterPerModule*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{DailyCounterPerModule(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the
module of the entity with length *numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*, or if the counter is not
incremented this day for this module then 1 with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{DailyCounterPerModule(myName; 1)} returns 5
|=======================================================================

*DailyCounterPerUserPerModule*

[cols=",",]
|=======================================================================
|Signature |\{DailyCounterPerUserPerModule(name; numberLength)}

|Parameters |name: any text

| |numberLength: decimal number

|Description |Increments and returns the counter for *name* for the user
who creates the entity and for the module of the entity with length
*numberLength*

|Returns |Counter with length *numberLength*, or if the counter is not
incremented this day for the user who creates the entity and for this
module then 1 with length *numberLength*

|Example call |\{DailyCounterPerUserPerModule(myName; 1)} returns 5
|=======================================================================

[[example]]
Example

*Calculate monthly fee for an opportunity*

*Use Case*

The user would like to calculate a monthly fee of an opportunity to a
custom field by dividing the amount of the opportunity by the duration.

*Setup*

Our opportunities module has a dropdown field called Duration with
values: (database value in brackets) 6 months [6], 1 year [12], 2 years
[24]. There is also a currency field called Monthly.

*Workflow*

Go to WorkFlow module and create a new WorkFlow. Set the base options
like the following:

[cols=",",]
|=====================================================
|*Name:* as you wish |*WorkFlow Module:* Opportunities
|*Status:* Active |*Run:* Only on save
|*Run on:* All records |*Repeated runs:* checked
|=====================================================

image:130Example_workflow.png[130Example_workflow.png,title="130Example_workflow.png"]

We do not create any conditions, since we would like the WorkFlow to run
on all opportunities.

Now, add an action and select Calculate Fields from the dropdown.

Then, add two fields from Opportunities as parameters. First, select
Opportunity amount (amount) and add it as a parameter (it will be \{P0})
then select Duration and the raw value option from the data type
dropdown and add it as parameter two (it will be \{P1}). There is no
need to add any relational parameters for this formula.

Now, add a formula for the monthly field and fill the textbox with the
following formula:

<pre style="white-space: pre; white-space: -moz-pre; white-space: -pre;
white-space: -o-pre;"> \{divide(\{P0}; \{P1})} </pre>

So the whole action should look like this:

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/1/13/ExampleCF_updated1.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/1/13/ExampleCF_updated1.png]</span>

Save the WorkFlow and create a new Opportunity:

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/5/5a/ExampleCF_orig2.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/5/5a/ExampleCF_orig2.png]</span>

As you can see, we did not even add the monthly field to the EditView,
because we don’t want to force the user to make calculations. Save the
Opportunity and check the results on the DetailView:

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/4/4b/ExampleCF_orig3.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/images/4/4b/ExampleCF_orig3.png]</span>

'''''

AOW Calculated Fields was contributed by http://www.dtbc.eu/[diligent
technology & business consulting GmbH]

'''''

*Removing Actions*

You can remove Action Lines by clicking the 'X' button on the top right
hand side of the Action.

image:131Removing_actions.png[131Removing_actions.png,title="131Removing_actions.png"]

*Removing Field and Relationship Lines*

You can remove Field and Relationship Lines by clicking the '-' button
on the left hand side of the Action.

image:132Removing_fields.png[132Removing_fields.png,title="132Removing_fields.png"]

[[process-audit]]
Process Audit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Advanced OpenWorkflow allows users to audit your processes. In the
Detail View of each WorkFlow record there is a sub-panel called
'Processed Flows'.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image132.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image132.png]</span>

This lists all the workflow processes which have been actioned including
details on the record which actioned the flow, its status and the date
it was created.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image133.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image133.png]</span>

You can view this information at a higher level by clicking the 'View
Process Audit' button within the module action bar. This will show all
the processes that have run for all the WorkFlow records.

[[tutorials]]
Tutorials
^^^^^^^^^

*Customers to Target List*

This tutorial will show you how to create a workflow process to add
accounts who are customers to a Target-List when the record is created
or modified. Set Up

1.  Start by navigating to the WorkFlow module and clicking 'Create
Workflow' from the the action bar.
2.  Give your workflow a Name such as 'Populate Target List.
3.  Select Accounts as the WorkFlow Module.
4.  Ensure Repeated Runs is NOT selected and the Status is Active (This
should be done by default). Optionally you can change the Assigned-To
and add a Description.

*Conditions*

1.  Create a new Condition Line by clicking the 'Add Condition' button.
2.  Select 'Type' from the Field drop down.
3.  Keep the Operator as 'Equals To' and the Type as 'Value'.
4.  From the Value drop down select 'Customer'.

Once these steps have been completed the Conditions panel should look
like this:

image:134Conditions.png[134Conditions.png,title="134Conditions.png"]

*Actions*

Create a new Action by clicking the 'Add Action' button.

1.  Select 'Modify Record from the Select Action drop down list.
2.  Using the Name field, give the action a name such as 'Add to Target
List'
3.  Add a Relationship Line by clicking the 'Add Relationship' button.
4.  A drop down will appear above the 'Add Relationship' button. Select
the relationship from this drop down box. In this case we are looking
for 'Target Lists: Prospect List'
5.  This will populate the rest of the line. Click the arrow button next
to the relate field to select your target list.

Once these steps have been completed your Actions panel should look like
this:

image:218Add_to_target_list_actions.png[218Add_to_target_list_actions.png,title="218Add_to_target_list_actions.png"]

*Cases Reminder*

This tutorial will show you how to create a workflow process to notify
the assigned user and then a particular manger user when an open Case
has not been updated/modified within two days. Set Up

1.  Start by navigating to the WorkFlow module and clicking 'Create
Workflow' from the the action bar.
2.  Give your workflow a Name such as 'Case Escalation'.
3.  Select Cases as the WorkFlow Module.
4.  Ensure Repeated Runs is NOT selected and the Status is Active (This
should be done by default). Optionally you can change the Assigned-To
and add a Description.

Once these steps have been completed the first panel should look like
this:

image:136Case_Escalation.png[136Case_Escalation.png,title="136Case_Escalation.png"]

*Conditions*

Create a new Condition Line by clicking the 'Add Condition' button.

Select 'Date Modified' from the Field drop down.

Change the Operator to 'Less Than or Equal To' and the Type to 'Date'

From the Value fields select 'Now', '-', '2', 'Days' in order.

Once these steps have been completed the Conditions panel should look
like this:

image:137Conditions.png[137Conditions.png,title="137Conditions.png"]

Repeat step 1.

This time select 'Status' from the Field drop down.

Keep the Operator as 'Equals To' and change the Type to 'Multiple'.

From the Value multi-select field select any values which signify an
open case

Once these steps have been completed the Conditions panel should look
like this:

image:138Conditions.png[138Conditions.png,title="138Conditions.png"]

*Actions*

1.  Create a new Action by clicking the 'Add Action' button.
2.  Select 'Send Email from the Select Action down down list.
3.  Give the action a Name such as 'Assigned User Reminder'
4.  On the Email Line select 'Related Field' from the first drop down,
'Users: Assigned To' from the second drop down and a email template from
the third drop down.

Once these steps have been completed the Actions panel should look like
this:

image:219Assigned_user_reminder_actions.png[219Assigned_user_reminder_actions.png,title="219Assigned_user_reminder_actions.png"]

\1. Repeat steps 1, 2 and 3 but change the name of this action to
'Manager Escalation Email'. 2. On the Email Line select 'User' and then
select you who should receive the email. Select an email template from
the third drop down. 3. When you are finished click 'Save' to create
your workflow. Once these steps have been completed the Actions panel
should look like this:

image:220Double_action.png[220Double_action.png,title="220Double_action.png"]

*Follow Up Web Leads*

This tutorial will show you how to create a workflow process to assign
web Leads to a particular user from a particular role within SuiteCRM.
This user will be chosen by round robin. The workflow process will also
set a follow up call for one day after the Lead is created.

''Note: You can change the Sales role to any role found in your own
system. ''

*Set Up*

1.  Start by navigating to the WorkFlow module and clicking 'Create
Workflow' from the the action bar.
2.  Give your workflow a Name such as 'Web Lead Assignment and Follow
Up'.
3.  Select Leads as the WorkFlow Module.
4.  Ensure Repeated Runs is NOT selected and the Status is Active (This
should be done by default). Optionally you can change the Assigned-To
and add a Description.

Once these steps have been completed the first panel should look like
this:

image:141Set_up.png[141Set_up.png,title="141Set_up.png"]

*Conditions*

1.  Create a new Condition Line by clicking the 'Add Condition' button.
2.  Select 'Lead Source' from the Field drop down.
3.  Keep the Operator as 'Equals To' and the Type as 'Value'
4.  From the Value drop down select our condition, 'Web Site'

Once these steps have been completed the Conditions panel should look
like this:

image:142Conditions.png[142Conditions.png,title="142Conditions.png"]

*Actions*

1.  Create a new Action by clicking the 'Add Action' button.
2.  Select 'Modify Record' from the Select Action down down list.
3.  Using the Name field, give the action a name such as 'Assign to
Sales'
4.  Add a Field Line by clicking the 'Add Field' button.
5.  Select 'Assigned-To' from the new drop down box that has appeared
above the 'Add Field' button.
6.  Change the middle drop down box from 'Value' to 'Round Robin'
7.  Change the third drop down box from 'ALL Users' to 'ALL Users in
Role'
8.  Select from forth drop down box on the line 'Sales'.

Once these steps have been completed the Actions panel should look like
this:

image:221Assign_to_sales_action.png[221Assign_to_sales_action.png,title="221Assign_to_sales_action.png"]

1.  Now create a new Action by repeating step 1.
2.  This time select 'Create Record' from the Select Action down down
list.
3.  Using the Name field, give the action a name such as 'Create Follow
Up Call'.
4.  From the Record Type drop down select 'Calls'.
5.  Click the Add Field button to add a new field:
6.  Select 'Subject' from the first drop down box. Leave the second drop
down box as 'Value' then type the desired subject into the text field at
the end.
7.  Add another field, this time selecting the 'Start Date' from the
first drop down box.
8.  Change the second drop down box from 'Value' to 'Date'.
9.  In the third drop down box select 'Now'. In the fourth drop down box
on the line select '+'.
10. In the text box type '1' and in the drop down next to it select
'Days'.
11. Add another field, this time select 'Assigned-To', 'Field',
'Assigned-To' – This will relate the assigned User of the Lead to the
Call.
12. You can add any other fields that you wish to include in the call at
this stage. To finish click 'Save'.

Once these steps have been completed the Actions panel should look like
this:

image:222action.png[222action.png,title="222action.png"]

[[advanced-open-cases-with-portal]]
Advanced Open Cases with Portal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[[introduction]]
Introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Advanced OpenPortal (AOP) is an enhancement to the case management
module in SuiteCRM. There is also a Joomla component. AOP extends the
core cases functionality and enhances mechanisms for contacts to update
cases.

This module allows contacts held within SuiteCRM to:

* Retrieve emails regarding updates to your Cases
* Create Cases by emailing a defined support address
* Update Cases by replying to Case emails

The module allows SuiteCRM users to: Add updates to Cases View a
threaded log of all updates Retrieve email notifications when a contact
adds an update to a Case Create Joomla users from a Contact The AOP
Joomla component connects a Joomla site to the SuiteCRM instance. This
allows SuiteCRM Contacts to: View a list of your Cases online Create new
Cases online Reply to existing cases View your case details including a
threaded log of all updates

Emails Advanced OpenPortal (AOP) uses the standard SuiteCRM
functionality to send emails and create cases from inbound emails.
Details on how to configure your outgoing email settings can be found
here. Details on how to set up a group email account which will
automatically generate cases can be found here.

[[installation-configuration]]
Installation & Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

System Administrator users can configure the settings by accessing the
AOP settings through the admin panel.

image:145AOP_settings.png[145AOP_settings.png,title="145AOP_settings.png"]

Here you can enable or disable the AOP functionality, configure the
Joomla URL, set the case distribution method, “email from” details and
the different email templates.

To install the Joomla AOP component, use the Joomla Extension Manager.
Once installed you must configure the SuiteCRM URL and a valid SuiteCRM
username and password. This can be done by navigating to Components →
advancedopen-portal.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image146.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image146.png]</span>

Once you have configured the Joomla component you can add two new Main
Menu items to your Joomla portal. These are:

* List Cases - This shows a list of all Cases that the Contact has
logged. This page also provides a search mechanism to filter cases.
* New Case – This page will allow Contacts to create Cases in SuiteCRM
from the Joomla portal.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image147.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image147.png]</span>

[[using-advanced-openportal]]
Using Advanced OpenPortal
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Creating a Portal User*

To create a Portal User a SuiteCRM User must first create a Contact for
the Portal User using the standard SuiteCRM functionality. Once created
you must click the 'Create Portal User' button. This can be found at the
top left hand side of the Contact record Detail View.

_Note: If you have action menus enabled the button will be within the
action menu._

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image1408png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image148.png]</span>

Once clicked, a new user will be created in Joomla and the Contact will
be sent your portal credentials via email.

*Creating a Case via the Portal*

Portal Users can create a new Case by going to the New Case page on the
portal website.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image149.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image149.png]</span>

From here Portal Users can enter the details of your issue and attach
any supporting documents. The dropdown values are dynamically pulled
from the SuiteCRM instance and thus can be edited using the drop down
editor tool within SuiteCRM.

_Note: This feature does use the Joomla cache so please clear cache
after an update has been made. When the case is ready to be logged,
click the 'Save' button. This will create the Case within SuiteCRM_.

*Viewing Cases via the Portal*

Portal Users can view a list of all your Cases using the List Cases
page. This will also allow you to filter your search by State (All, Open
or Closed) or by keyword. When searching by keyword it will search the
'Number', 'Subject', 'Status', 'Created' and 'Last Update' fields to
find your result.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image150.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image150.png]</span>

To view more information on the case and to add updates then Portal
Users can click the 'Subject' of case.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image151.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image151.png]</span>

From the case view Portal Users can view all the external updates added
to the case from both Joomla and SuiteCRM. This is displayed in a
threaded format showing who updated the case Any attached files to
updates will also be accessible from this view. When a Portal User
updates a case the assigned SuiteCRM user of the case will be notified
by email.

*Creating and Updating Cases from SuiteCRM*

You can create and update Cases from SuiteCRM. To add an update to an
existing record Users will add text to the 'Update' field within the
case Detail View and click 'Save'. This will publish the update to the
portal and send an email to any Contacts related to the Case.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image152.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image152.png]</span>

If Users check the 'Internal Update' field then the update will appear
in SuiteCRM only. It will not appear in Joomla and the Contact will not
be emailed.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image153.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image153.png]</span>

The Case Detail View will show the full threaded update log.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image154.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image154.png]</span>

Additional Contacts can be added to the Case using the Contacts sub
panel. All emails exchanged between the system, the contact and you will
be attached to the History sub-panel. Any documents attached to the case
using the Portal are held as Notes within this sub-panel.

*Status Drop Down*

Within Cases, you can specify both a State and a Status value. The State
determines if the Case is Open or Closed. Depending on the State you
will be offered different statuses. You can amend these statuses using
the Dropdown Editor Tool within the Admin Developer Tools. When adding a
new Status you must define the Item Name as “<parent dropdown item
name>_ItemName” For example “Open_New” or “Closed_Rejected”. All values
with an Item Name prefixed with “Open_” will show when the state is
Open, similarly all with the prefix “Closed_” will show when the state
is closed.

[[advanced-open-events]]
Advanced Open Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[[events-locations]]
Events Locations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Locations module is used to capture the venue/site information where
events are held.

*Creating Locations*

\1. Hover over the Locations module on the navigation bar and select
'Create Location'.

image:146Create_location.png[146Create_location.png,title="146Create_location.png"]

\2. This will take you to the Edit View. Enter information into the
appropriate fields, all required fields are marked with a red asterisk
and must be completed prior to saving.

image:147Location_edit_view.png[147Location_edit_view.png,title="147Location_edit_view.png"]

\3. Once the necessary information is entered, click "Save".

[[events]]
Events
^^^^^^

The Events module is used to capture information an particular event and
send out invites to delegates. To view the Events held within the system
click the 'Events' tab on the navigation bar. This will take you to the
Events List View.

*Creating Events*

\1. Hover over the Events module on the navigation bar and select
'Create Event'.

image:148Create_event.png[148Create_event.png,title="148Create_event.png"]

\2. This will take you to the Edit View. Enter information into the
appropriate fields, all required fields are marked with a red asterisk
and must be completed prior to saving.

image:149Events_edit_view.png[149Events_edit_view.png,title="149Events_edit_view.png"]

The following fields are found on the Events module:

* *Name* – The name of the event
* *Start* *Date* – The date and time of when the event starts
* *End* *Date* – The date and time of when the event ends
* *Duration* – The duration of the event. This will automatically change
the end date or be altered automatically if the end date is changed.
* *Location* – This is a relationship to the *Event Locations* module.
* *Budget* – The budget for the event.
* *Email* *Invite* *Template* – The *Email Template* that will be sent
to associated Delegates.
* *Accept* *Redirect* *URL* – The web page invitees should be redirected
to after you accept an invite using the link provided in the *Email
Template*.
* *Decline* *Redirect* *URL* – The web page invitees should be
redirected to after you decline an invite using the link provided in the
*Email Template*.
* *Description* – More information about the Event.
* *Assigned*-*To* – Who the assigned user is for this event. This
defaults to you who creates the event.
* *Created* *By* – Which user created the event.

\3. Once the necessary information is entered, click "Save".

[[adding-delegates]]
Adding Delegates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\1. Navigate to the Event Detail View.

\2. Navigate to the Delegates sub-panel found below the 'Event Details'
panel.

image:223Adding_delegates.png[223Adding_delegates.png,title="223Adding_delegates.png"]

\3. Click 'Select Delegates'. A list of options will appear.

image:224Select_delegates.png[224Select_delegates.png,title="224Select_delegates.png"]

\4. Select the appropriate option depending on who should be added to
the Event.

* *Target* *List* – Select a *Target List* of individuals to be
associated to the event. All *Targets*, *Leads* and *Contacts* on this
'''Target List '''will be added to the *Event*.
* *Targets* – Select *Targets* to be associated to this *Event*.
* *Contacts* – Select *Contacts* to be associated to this *Event*.
* *Leads* – Select *Leads* to be associated to this *Event*.
* *Events* – Select an *Event* to associate that *Event's* delegates to
this *Event*.

\5. Once an option has been chosen a new pop-up box will appear to
search and select records from the module type that was chosen.

\6. The Delegates sub-panel will populate with the records selected.

image:225Delegates.png[225Delegates.png,title="225Delegates.png"]

[[sending-invites-to-delegates]]
Sending Invites To Delegates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\1. Navigate to the Delegates sub-panel.

\2. Choose action 'Send Invites'.

image:226Send_invites.png[226Send_invites.png,title="226Send_invites.png"]

\3. This will send the email template selected in the 'Email Invite
Template' to all Delegates who have the status 'Not Invited'

\4. Once selected the Delegate status will automatically update to
'Invited'.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image163.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image163.png]</span>

\5. Choosing 'Resend Invites' will send invites out to all Delegates
associated to the Event who have yet to respond.

[[managing-delegates-acceptance-manually]]
Managing Delegates Acceptance Manually
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\1. Navigate to the Delegates sub-panel.

\2. Select the Delegates that require your 'Accept Status' to be
updated.

\3. Choose action 'Manage Acceptances'

image:227Manage_acceptances.png[227Manage_acceptances.png,title="227Manage_acceptances.png"]

\4. A list of options will appear. Select appropriate statuses:

image:228Acceptances.png[228Acceptances.png,title="228Acceptances.png"]

\5. This will update the Delegates 'Accept Status' accordingly.

image:229Accepted.png[229Accepted.png,title="229Accepted.png"]

_Note: Acceptance will my automatically updated if the Delegate chooses
to accept using the link provided in the email template._

[[updating-delegates-status-manually]]
Updating Delegates Status Manually
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

\1. Navigate to the Delegates sub-panel.

\2. Select the Delegates that require your attendance to be updated.

\3. Choose action 'Manage Delegates'

image:230Manage_delegates.png[230Manage_delegates.png,title="230Manage_delegates.png"]

\4. A list of options will appear. Select the appropriate status;
Invited, Not Invited, Attended or Not Attended.

image:231Manage_delegates.png[231Manage_delegates.png,title="231Manage_delegates.png"]

\5. This will update the Delegates 'Status' accordingly.

image:232Updated_status.png[232Updated_status.png,title="232Updated_status.png"]

_Note: Acceptance will be automatically updated if the Delegate chooses
to accept using the link provided in the email template._

[[advanced-open-reports]]
Advanced Open Reports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Advanced Open Reports (AOR) is the reporting module within SuiteCRM. AOR
can be accessed by clicking the 'Reports' link within the navigation
menu. The reporting module allows users to report on CRM data from any
module and has many features to display key information quickly.

[[creating-reports]]
Creating Reports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To create a report, hover over the Reports module on the navigation bar
and select 'Create Report'.

image:152Create_report.png[152Create_report.png,title="152Create_report.png"]

You will be presented with the report Edit View. To obtain a list of
fields to add to the report, you have to select a module from the Report
Module drop down.

image:153Reports_edit_view.png[153Reports_edit_view.png,title="153Reports_edit_view.png"]

*Adding Fields*

Once you have selected a Report Module, the list of fields available
will display on the left panel. You can add fields to the 'Fields'
section of the report by expanding the module you wish to select fields
from and then drag and drop those fields into the field section.

image:233Report_fields.png[233Report_fields.png,title="233Report_fields.png"]

Once you have added fields to a Report, there are multiple options to
configure for those fields:

* Display – True or false option. Allows you to specify whether this
field should be displayed on the report, or hidden. Users may wish to
add fields to perform a function/sort/group/total but may not wish to
show this on the Report.<br/>

* Link – True or false option. Allows you to make the field a link.
Setting this option to true will hyperlink the field on the Detail View
of the report, allowing you to click on the record. This will navigate
you to the appropriate record. For example, linking the Opportunity Name
will take you to the Detail View of that Opportunity.<br/>

* Label – This is the label that will be displayed for the Column/Field
on the Report. You can change the label from the default to any
alphanumerical value.<br/>

* Function - Provides five options: Count, Minimum, Maximum, Sum and
Average. Allows you to perform functions on alphanumerical fields. Users
may wish to calculate the average Opportunity Amount, or Count total
Opportunities at a given Sales Stage.<br/>

* Sort – Ascending or Descending. Allows you to select whether to sort
the field/column descending or ascending. This can be done for all
fields.<br/>

* Group – True or false option. Allows you to group by this field. For
example, you may wish to group by Sales Stage when reporting on an
Opportunity.<br/>

* Total – Provides three options: Count, Sum and Average. This allows
users to perform total calculations on numerical fields. This is useful
for financial reporting such as the total value of all Opportunities at
a given Sales Stage.<br/>

*Adding Conditions*

Once you have added the fields to your Report, you can add condition
lines to the Report. You can add conditions with the same procedure as
adding fields. Using the drag and drop functionality, you can drag
fields into the 'Conditions' area which will add the field and allow you
to specify the condition for that field.

[[charts]]
Charts
^^^^^^

You can add charts to Reports. Charts provide a visual representation of
the Report data to you. In some scenarios, or for particular users,
visual aids such as charts can assist quicker analysis and better
understanding.

*Chart Types*

There are six types of chart that the user can select to display Report
data. These are:

* Pie Chart
* Bar Chart
* Line Chart
* Radar Chart
* Stacked Bar
* Grouped Bar

<br/> To add a chart, you can click the 'Add Chart' button, below the
Conditions section within the Report Edit View.

image:234Add_chart.png[234Add_chart.png,title="234Add_chart.png"]

Once you click add chart, you will be presented with the option to
specify the following information:

* Title – Allows the user to specify the title for the chart. This will
show on the Detail View of the Report and also on the dashlet chart.
* Type – This allows the user to select from one of the six chart types
detailed above.
* X Axis – Allows the user to select the column that should be used for
the X Axis.
* Y Axis – Allows the user to select the column that should be used for
the Y Axis.

image:235Making_chart.png[235Making_chart.png,title="235Making_chart.png"]

Once you have specified the chart details, save the Report. This will
display the chart on the Detail View of the Report, below the list of
records returned.

image:image176.png[image176.png,title="image176.png"]

[[reports-dashlets]]
Reports Dashlets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can display a Report within a dashlet. It is possible to view
multiple Report results as you can add multiple Report dashlets and
select different Reports within each dashlet. To do this, add the
Reports dashlet to your homepage.

image:156Add_dashlet.png[156Add_dashlet.png,title="156Add_dashlet.png"]

image:157Reports_dashlet.png[157Reports_dashlet.png,title="157Reports_dashlet.png"]

Once you have added the dashlet, you need to select the Report you wish
to display within the dashlet. To do this, click the pencil icon to edit
the dashlet.

image:158Choose_report.png[158Choose_report.png,title="158Choose_report.png"]

This allows the user to select the Report they wish to display within
the dashlet.

image:159Report_dashlet_results.png[159Report_dashlet_results.png,title="159Report_dashlet_results.png"]

Once you have selected the Report, click 'Save'. This will update your
Reports dashlet to show the results of the Report.

_Note: For full details on adding and managing dashlets, see the
link:#Dashlets[Dashlets] section of this user guide._

[[reports-charts-dashlets]]
Reports Charts Dashlets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can specify to only select to display a chart for Report dashlets.
To do this, edit your Report dashlet and select the 'Only use charts'
option. This will then list all charts you have created for this Report.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image182.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image182.png]</span>

Select a chart or multiple charts and click 'Save'. This will display
the results in the chart selected.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image183.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image183.png]</span>

[[scheduled-reports]]
Scheduled Reports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can schedule reports to be automatically run and emailed to the
required Contact(s). This allows users to schedule reports to be sent to
Managers or Team Leads either Daily, Weekly or Monthly. To create a
Scheduled Report, you can click the 'Create' option within the Scheduled
Reports Sub-panel on the Detail View of the Report. You can also select
existing Scheduled Reports to relate to the Report.

image:236Scheduled_Reports.png[236Scheduled_Reports.png,title="236Scheduled_Reports.png"]

Once you have clicked 'Create', there are options to set for the
Scheduled Report. Give the Scheduled Report a relevant name. In this
example, we will use 'Daily Opportunites Report for Managers'.

image:161Scheduled_report_edit.png[161Scheduled_report_edit.png,title="161Scheduled_report_edit.png"]

You can select the 'Advanced' option for report scheduling. This will
provide a cron notation style option. This is best suited for System
Administrators or advanced users.

image:162Scheduled_report_edit.png[162Scheduled_report_edit.png,title="162Scheduled_report_edit.png"]

Once you have entered a name and selected a schedule, click 'Save'.

image:162Scheduled_report_edit.png[162Scheduled_report_edit.png,title="162Scheduled_report_edit.png"]

Once you save the Scheduled Report record, this will display in the
Scheduled Reports subpanel within the Detail View of the Report.

image:237Scheduled_report.png[237Scheduled_report.png,title="237Scheduled_report.png"]

You can view when the Scheduled Report last ran by viewing the 'Last
Run' column/field on the sub-panel. This shows in a date/time format.

<span
class="plainlinks">https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image189.png[https://suitecrm.com/wiki/media/image189.png]</span>

[[reschedule]]
Reschedule
~~~~~~~~~~

[[rescheduling-a-call]]
Rescheduling a Call
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To reschedule a Call, you can click the 'Reschedule' button on the
Detail View of a Call which has been defined as Outbound and Planned.

image:164Reschedule_call.png[164Reschedule_call.png,title="164Reschedule_call.png"]

[[defining-the-details]]
Defining the Details
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Clicking the Reschedule button will produce a pop up or dialogue box up.
This enables users to set the date and time for the rescheduled Call.

image:238Reschedule_call.png[238Reschedule_call.png,title="238Reschedule_call.png"]

You can also select a reason for the incomplete/unsuccessful Call from
the drop down list. Once the details have been defined, click the 'Save'
button to save the Call.

image:239Reschedule_reason.png[239Reschedule_reason.png,title="239Reschedule_reason.png"]

[[tracking-history]]
Tracking History
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once Saved, the Call is rescheduled for the new date and time. you can
view all Call Reschedule history by clicking the 'Reschedule' tab on the
Calls Detail View.

image:240Call_attempty_history.png[240Call_attempty_history.png,title="240Call_attempty_history.png"]

[[altering-reasons-drop-down]]
Altering Reasons Drop Down
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

System Administrator users can edit the reasons available in the
Reschedule pop-up using the drop down editor. The drop down list used is
called 'call_reschedule_dom'.

[[summary-5]]
Summary
~~~~~~~

In this chapter we have covered the functionality of the advanced
modules. These modules have a very specific purpose - enabling users to
improve processes and efficiently report on and manage data.

In the next chapter, we will cover some third party modules which are
part of the SuiteCRM product. These third party modules provide
additional functionality to you such as teams and location mapping.

[[security-suitegroups]]
Security Suite(Groups)
----------------------

Security Suite allows control of what users can access. It allows
restricting sensitive data in SuiteCRM to specific teams (groups).
SecuritySuite comes loaded with options which allow you to configure it
to meet your exact needs. Choose from a number of automatic assignment
options to ensure that your users can always access the data that you
need.

[[create-groups]]
Create Groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

System Administrators can add groups and roles or set up Security Groups
preferences in Security Suite Settings found at the top of the Admin
page.

image:167Create_groups.png[167Create_groups.png,title="167Create_groups.png"]

[[allow-non-admins-to-create-groups]]
Allow Non-admins to Create Groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

System Administrators can allow non-admin users to add groups to
records. This can be done by doing the following steps:

1.  Navigate to Configure Tabs. Add Security Groups to the displayed
tabs.
2.  Run Repair Roles, within Admin->Repair, to be able to assign rights
to Security Groups.
3.  Edit role(s) to Enable Security Groups Management.
4.  Edit role(s) to set List to All or Group for Security Groups
Management as desired.

[[configure-securitysuite-settings]]
Configure SecuritySuite Settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SecuritySuite is very configurable and allows for support near every
possible situation. Because of that there may be a learning curve and
some time required to understand what each option does and how it may be
used for your specific needs. You can find the settings page by going to
Admin->SecuritySuite Settings.

[[groups-setup]]
Groups Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are 3 key steps to setting up Groups so that you work correctly.

1.  Create a group for each team of users and add the appropriate users
to the group.
2.  Create a role and select Group for the access level for every
appropriate cell in the grid. Assign that role to each group
3.  Add the groups to records in your SuiteCRM instance. You can use the
Mass Assign on the List View to do this. Going forward the groups will
automatically inherit based on your SecuritySuite Settings. You can also
use logic hooks, workflow, or do a direct database insert into the
securitygroups_records table if doing a one-time initial setup.

If your users should only typically see their own records then the role
assigned to the group would be configured to have Owner only rights. A
manager who is a part of the group, but who should see be able to see
all records in the group would have a role directly assigned to you
record that gives Group access.

For more help check out:

* https://www.sugaroutfitters.com/docs/securitysuite/example-of-a-typical-setup[Example
of a Typical Setup]
* https://www.sugaroutfitters.com/docs/securitysuite/introduction-video[Introduction
Video]

Roles determine what a user can do with a record once they have access
to it.

1.  Create the roles
2.  Edit role(s) to Enable Security Groups Management
3.  Edit role(s) to set List to All or Group for Security Groups
Management as desired

[[a-typical-hierarchy-setup]]
A Typical Hierarchy Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although SecuritySuite can handle any organizational structure, the most
common scenario it is used for is one where the owner can sell
everything, managers can see both their own records and those of their
team, and team members can only see their own records.

[[the-scenario]]
The Scenario
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This company has 2 sales teams; East and West. The owner, Jill, should
be able to see everything. The East Sales team is lead by Will and Sarah
leads the West Sales team. Both of them should see everything just in
your own respective teams. The rest of the Sales Reps in each teams
should only be allowed to see your own records.

[[set-up-the-groups]]
Set up the Groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Create a group called East Sales
2.  Add Will and the Sales Reps
3.  Create a group called West Sales
4.  Add Sarah and the Sales Reps

[[set-up-the-roles]]
Set up the Roles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Create a role called Everything and set the rights to All._Tips and
Tricks: Click the header in any column on the role grid and you can set
the rights for the whole column at one time_
2.  Assign the Everything role directly to Jill's user account
3.  Create a role called Group Only and set the rights for everything to
Group
4.  Assign the Group role directly to Will and Sarah
5.  Create a role called Owner Only and set the rights for everything to
Owner
6.  Assign the Owner Only role to the East Sales and West Sales groups

[[assign-the-groups]]
Assign the Groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This instance already has some existing Leads so we will assign them to
the appropriate groups.

1.  Go to the Leads List View and search for the Leads that should
belong to the East Sales group
2.  Check the appropriate Leads, in the Mass Assign panel choose East
Sales, and click "Assign"
3.  Repeat for the West Sales team

_Note: Going forward the groups will be automatically inherited by any
Calls, Contacts, Notes, etc that get added based on the SecuritySuite
Settings that are configured. If the SuiteCRM instance is already loaded
with lots of data at the time of starting with SecuritySuite then there
may be some initial work to be done to add those groups to the related
records. The Mass Assign functionality on the List View can be used or
direct database insertion into the securitygroups_records table. See
existing data in that table for how to format the data. This will
require SQL knowledge if you want to go that route._

[[check-the-settings]]
Check the Settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These settings determine how SecuritySuite functions. In the Group
Inheritance Rules panel the defaults of "Inherit from Created By User",
"Inherit from Assigned To User", and "Inherit from Parent Record" will
work perfectly in this scenario.

Any Lead that gets created will automatically have groups assigned to it
based on who created it and who gets assigned to it. If a Call is
created for a Lead then the Call will inherit the groups from the Lead
record (parent record) along with inheriting the groups from the created
by user and the assigned to user.

Another key setting is "Strict Rights". In the scenario above the
default settings will cause the links on the List View for the team
Leads to show with no link for records that are assigned to your group.
In many cases you will want to uncheck "Strict Rights" so that you can
assign groups in the manner described in this doc.

[[thats-it]]
That's it!
^^^^^^^^^^

The hardest part is always the initial setup. Once you have things
configured and figured out it will just run on its own.

Have a more complicated structure? Apply the same principles here for
each additional level of hierarchy that you may have. The key is to
create a group at the lowest levels of the structure and then work your
way back up.

[[advanced-options]]
Advanced Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SuiteCRM System Administrators can configure many advanced options for
Security Suite. This allows you to control various access/rights,
inheriting of records, filters and more.

image:168Security_group_management.png[168Security_group_management.png,title="168Security_group_management.png"]

[[additive-rights]]
Additive Rights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

User gets greatest rights of all roles assigned to you or user's
group(s)

[[strict-rights]]
Strict Rights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If a user is a member of several groups only the respective rights from
the group assigned to the current record are used.

[[new-user-group-popup]]
New User Group Popup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When creating a new user show the SecurityGroups popup to assign you to
a group(s).

[[user-role-precedence]]
User Role Precedence
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If any role is assigned directly to a user that role should take
precedence over any group roles.

[[filter-user-list]]
Filter User List
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Non-admin users can only assign to users in the same group(s)

[[use-popup-select]]
Use Popup Select
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When a record is created by a user in more than one group popup a group
selection screen otherwise inherit that one group. Inheritance rules
will only be used for non-user created records (e.g. Workflows, etc).

[[use-creator-group-select]]
Use Creator Group Select
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adds a panel to a record creation screen if a user is a member of more
than one inheritable group that allows a user to select one or more
groups that you belongs to that should be associated with the newly
created record. If a user is in just one group the normal inheritance
rules will instead be applied.

_Note: The new record will still inherit from the Assigned To user or
Parent record if these options are set. This setting only overrides the
Created By setting._

[[shared-calendar---hide-restricted]]
Shared Calendar - Hide Restricted
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default users can see when other users are busy on the Shared
Calendar. Even if you doesn't have rights to the meeting, call, etc. It
will display on the calendar, but you cannot view more details unless
you have rights to that specific calendar item. By setting this option
you cannot see these items on the Shared Calendar; only items that you
actually has rights to.

[[inherit-from-created-by-user]]
Inherit from Created By User
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The record will inherit all the groups assigned to you who created it.

[[inherit-from-assigned-to-user]]
Inherit from Assigned To User
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The record will inherit all the groups of you assigned to the record.
Other groups assigned to the record will NOT be removed.

[[inherit-from-parent-record]]
Inherit from Parent Record
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

e.g. If a case is created for a contact the case will inherit the groups
associated with the contact.

[[default-groups-for-new-records]]
Default Groups for New Records
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set groups that should always be attached when a specific module is
created.

[[inbound-email-account]]
Inbound email account
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Locks down inbound email accounts in the email client to only list those
that belong to the same group as the current user.

[[jjw-maps]]
JJW Maps
--------

JJW Maps provides mapping functionality for SuiteCRM. JJW Maps is a
third party module, provided by http://www.jjwdesign.com/[JJW Design].

Documentation and releases are kept up to date on the
http://www.jjwdesign.com/google-maps-for-sugarcrm/[JJW Maps project
page].

[[troubleshooting-and-support]]
Troubleshooting and Support
---------------------------

At SalesAgility we are advocates of Open Source. As such please do not
contact us directly via email or phone for SuiteCRM support. Instead
please use our support forum. By using the
https://suitecrm.com/forum/suite-forum[forum] the knowledge is shared
with everyone in the community. Our developers answer questions on the
forum daily but it also gives the other members of the community the
opportunity to contribute. If you would like SalesAgility to customise
SuiteCRM specifically for your needs, or to provide a hosted and
supported CRM solution, then please use our
https://salesagility.com/contact-us[contact form].

[[summary-6]]
Summary
-------

In this guide we have covered various areas of SuiteCRM from the basics
of logging in to the complexity of creating automated workflow
processes. This guide is a resource to visually assist users in
maximising your use of SuiteCRM. You can also visit the
https://suitecrm.com/forum/suite-forum[SuiteCRM Community Forums] where
there are various topics and a wealth of knowledge provided by the
SuiteCRM team and contributing community members.

[[appendix-a]]
Appendix A
----------

[[contacts-field-list]]
Contacts Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Contacts.png[Contacts.png,title="Contacts.png"]

[[leads-field-list]]
Leads Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Leads.png[Leads.png,title="Leads.png"]

[[targets-field-list]]
Targets Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Targets.png[Targets.png,title="Targets.png"]

[[accounts-field-list]]
Accounts Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Accounts.png[Accounts.png,title="Accounts.png"]

[[opportunities-field-list]]
Opportunities Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Opportunities.png[Opportunities.png,title="Opportunities.png"]

[[products-field-list]]
Products Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Products.png[Products.png,title="Products.png"]

[[product-categories-field-list]]
Product Categories Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Product_Categories.png[Product_Categories.png,title="Product_Categories.png"]

[[quotes-field-list]]
Quotes Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Quotes.png[Quotes.png,title="Quotes.png"]

[[invoices-field-list]]
Invoices Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Invoices.png[Invoices.png,title="Invoices.png"]

[[contracts-field-list]]
Contracts Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Contracts.png[Contracts.png,title="Contracts.png"]

[[line-items-field-list]]
Line Items Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Line_Items.png[Line_Items.png,title="Line_Items.png"]

[[groups-field-list]]
Groups Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Groups.png[Groups.png,title="Groups.png"]

[[pdf-templates-field-list]]
PDF Templates Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:PDF_Templates.png[PDF_Templates.png,title="PDF_Templates.png"]

[[cases-field-list]]
Cases Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Cases.png[Cases.png,title="Cases.png"]

[[notes-field-list]]
Notes Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Notes.png[Notes.png,title="Notes.png"]

[[calls-field-list]]
Calls Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Calls.png[Calls.png,title="Calls.png"]

[[emails-field-list]]
Emails Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Emails.png[Emails.png,title="Emails.png"]

[[meetings-field-list]]
Meetings Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Meetings.png[Meetings.png,title="Meetings.png"]

[[tasks-field-list]]
Tasks Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Tasks.png[Tasks.png,title="Tasks.png"]

[[projects-field-list]]
Projects Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Projects.png[Projects.png,title="Projects.png"]

[[project-tasks-field-list]]
Project Tasks Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Project_Tasks.png[Project_Tasks.png,title="Project_Tasks.png"]

[[campaigns-field-list]]
Campaigns Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Campaigns.png[Campaigns.png,title="Campaigns.png"]

[[target-lists-field-list]]
Target Lists Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Target_Lists.png[Target_Lists.png,title="Target_Lists.png"]

[[email-templates-field-list]]
Email Templates Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Email_Templates.png[Email_Templates.png,title="Email_Templates.png"]

[[documents-field-list]]
Documents Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Documents.png[Documents.png,title="Documents.png"]

[[events-field-list]]
Events Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Events.png[Events.png,title="Events.png"]

[[locations-field-list]]
Locations Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Locations.png[Locations.png,title="Locations.png"]

[[users-field-list]]
Users Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Users.png[Users.png,title="Users.png"]

[[security-groups-field-list]]
Security Groups Field List
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

image:Security_Groups.png[Security_Groups.png,title="Security_Groups.png"]
